 
 
 
 
 
 
HOW FIN7 ATTACKED AND STOLE DATA 
Sophisticated Social Engineering: Phishing & Calling 
FIN7 typically initiated its cyberattacks by 
delivering a “phishing” email to a company 
employee.  Each email included an attached file, 
often an innocuous-appearing Microsoft Word 
document, with embedded malware.  The text 
within the email simulated a legitimate business-
related message in order to lead the recipient 
employee to open the attachment and unwittingly 
activate the malware that would infect the 
computer.  For example, when targeting a hotel 
chain, the sender of the phishing email might claim to be interested in making a reservation with 
details enclosed in the attachment.  When targeting a restaurant, the phishing email might refer to 
placing a large catering order or voice a complaint about prior service or food quality, further 
described in an attachment.  Examples of phishing emails deployed by FIN7 are below. 
In many cases, FIN7 would accompany the phishing emails with a telephone call to the 
victim company employee about the same topic, which was intended to legitimize the phishing 
email.  The caller often directed the employee to the recently sent phishing email to further 
entice the employee to open the attached file and activate the malware.  
Network Intrusion: Control & Data Exfiltration 
Once infected, the compromised victim computer 
connected to one of FIN7’s command and control servers 
located throughout the world.  Through a specially 
designed control panel, FIN7 could download a wide array 
of additional malware to the victim computer, remotely 
send commands and receive data, and move laterally 
through the company’s network.  Among other tools, 
FIN7 incorporated and adapted the notorious Carbanak 
malware, which was used by other cybercriminals in a 
massive transnational attack on the banking industry.  
FIN7’s malware allowed its members to conduct surveillance on company employees, including 
taking screen shots and even video recordings of desktop activity, enabling them to secretly steal 
credentials and other network information.  FIN7 then used its unauthorized access to the 
victim’s computer system to locate and extract various information and property of value, such 
as financial information and caches of customer payment card data.  
FIN7 most commonly focused on fast-food and casual dining restaurants, hotels, casinos, 
and businesses with a high frequency of point-of-sale transactions, including businesses with 
dozens of locations operating in Western Washington.  With these and other victims, FIN7 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
sought to steal credit, debit, and in some cases gift card data, used during legitimate customer 
purchases. 
Selling Stolen Cards  
Since 2015, FIN7 successfully stole data for more than 16 
million payment cards, many of which have been offered for 
sale through online underground marketplaces for stolen data.  
The purchasers could then use the stolen card numbers to make 
unauthorized charges on accounts belonging to unsuspecting 
cardholders. Investigators have observed typical retail 
purchases as well as the purchase of gift cards. 
Who is FIN7? 
 FIN7 is one of the most sophisticated and 
aggressive malware schemes in recent times, 
consisting of dozens of talented hackers located 
overseas. FIN7 uses an arsenal of constantly 
evolving malware tools and hacking techniques, 
and controls infected computers through a 
complex web of servers located throughout the 
world. The masterminds behind the criminal 
enterprise created a fake computer security 
business called Combi Security, which they used to recruit new members and to add a thin veil 
of legitimacy to the hacking scheme. However, there was nothing legitimate about the scores of 
attacks FIN7 launched against over 100 unsuspecting victims. 
 
