1/13
medium.com
/@DCSO_CyTec/to-russia-with-love-assessing-a-konni-backdoored-suspected-russian-consular-software-installer-c…
To Russia With Love: Assessing a KONNI-
Backdoored Suspected Russian Consular
Software Installer
DCSO CyTec Blog ⋮ ⋮ 2/21/2024
DCSO CyTec Blog
Earlier this year, DCSO observed an intriguing malware sample first uploaded to VirusTotal in mid-January
2024 that we believe to be part of North Korea-linked activity targeting the Russian Ministry of Foreign Affairs.
The malware itself appears to be KONNI, a North Korea (DPRK) nexus tool believed to have been used since
as early as 2014. The use of KONNI in highly similar activity targeting the Russian Ministry of Foreign Affairs
was previously observed by various researchers in a 2021 campaign. We have noted that additional
researchers have independently uncovered the same upload that we assess in this blogpost and identified it
as a KONNI sample.
Perhaps more interestingly, however, the sample was bundled into a backdoored Russian language software
installer. This is a KONNI delivery technique that we have previously observed, with a sample from 2023
delivered via a backdoored installer for the publicly available Russian state-mandated tax filing software
“Spravki BK” (Справки БК).
In this instance, the backdoored installer appears to be for a tool named “Statistika KZU” (Cтатистика КЗУ).
While we were unable to find any public references to the tool, we suspect on the basis of install paths, file
metadata, and user manuals bundled into the installer that the software is intended for internal use within the
Russian Ministry of Foreign Affairs (MID), specifically for the relaying of annual report files from overseas
consular posts (КЗУ — консульские загранучреждения) to the Consular Department of the MID via a secure
channel.
In this blogpost we will assess the backdoored Russian installer and the possible implications thereof,
document the functionality of the KONNI variant observed, and fit this finding into the bigger picture of
historical DPRK-linked espionage activity and KONNI usage targeting Russian entities.
Blog post authored by Johann Aydinbas, Olivia Hayward, Jiro Minier, and Kritika Roy
2/13
Picture by
The Backdoored Installer
As noted above, the KONNI sample we discovered appears to have been distributed via a backdoored
installer for a Russian-language tool named “Statistika KZU” (Cтатистика КЗУ). In spite of a lack of public
references to the tool, a number of data points lead us to believe that Statistika KZU is a tool intended for use
within the Russian Ministry of Foreign Affairs (MID), specifically for the relaying of consular statistics to the
MID from consulates worldwide. In the section below, we will detail the various data points and findings that
led us to reach this conclusion.
3/13
The main window of the Statistika KZU GUI
User Manual
Two user manual files were discovered bundled into the backdoored installer detailing the installation and
usage of the software. The first one (“Инструкция по установке программы StatRKZU”) explains how to
install the “Statistika KZU” program on an administrative account and begin running the software. It includes
the minimum software requirements and screenshots detailing the process. The software installer installs the
program to its default filepath (C:\ConsulSoft\StatRKZU). On the first login, the manual instructs
administrators to use the username “ADMIN” and an empty password, as shown in the image below.
Detailing how to log in to the program for the first time
From there, a window pops up and users select the country they are located in and the consulate that they
are working for. The KZU code is provided by the program automatically based on the entered information.
The user then provides the name of the head as well as their position.
4/13
Filling out information about the user’s consulate location when configuring
Statistika KZU
In order to begin sending the automatic reports to the MID, users must set up ViPNet, which is a secure,
encrypted Russian VPN client and one of the stated software requirements for Statistika KZU. In ViPNet,
users set up the automated report sending process, which is already listed as an option within the program. In
the image below, the option “Statistical report for KD” is selected within the ViPNet program, with the user in
the process of creating a new automatic processing rule.
Setting up the automated reports through ViPNet
The second manual (“StatRKZU_Руководство”) is a 22-page user manual for both administrators and
operators explaining how to use the software. It also clarifies the purpose of the software, which is to generate
annual report files on the consular activities of the KZU and automatically send these via a secure internet
channel to the consular department of the MID on the KZU Statistics server as well as print the reports.
It begins the same way as the other document, stating the minimum software requirements and how to log in
and set up the program for the first time. From there, it walks through the main window of the software and the
purpose of each tab. The screenshot below explains the main window of the program and where information
should be tracked and entered.
5/13
The manual then details the program functions available to administrators, including: registering users, setting
up modules in ViPNet, and saving and restoring databases.
The final section explains how to formulate and print annual reports. In the example below, we can see two of
the templates. The first is a template for a table containing the number of registered Russian citizens in the
KZU at the beginning of the year and at the end, and the second is the number of Russian citizens detained,
arrested, or imprisoned in the territory of the consular district at the beginning of the year and the number at
the end.
6/13
Structure for a printed statistical report template
Installed Software
We were able to successfully run the installer and use the instructions provided in the manual to access the
installed software offline. The UI of the installed program also appeared to correspond fully to the details
provided in the manual. We were, however, unable to test the functionality of the installed software,
preventing us from conclusively assessing whether the software is legitimate.
Install Path
The default install path created by the installer lends additional credibility to the notion that the software is
intended for use in a consular context:
\ConsulSoft\StatRKZU\
References to “GosNIIAS” (ГосНИИАС) in MSI File Metadata
Additionally, we noted that an entity named “GosNIIAS” (ГосНИИАС) is listed in the “authors” field of the MSI
file’s metadata.
7/13
The reference to ГосНИИАС in file metadata
GosNIIAS is an acronym for the State Scientific Research Institute of Aviation Systems (Государственный
научно-исследовательский институт авиационных систем), a Russian federal research institute primarily
involved in aerospace research and associated projects.
We were unable to find any direct correlations between GosNIIAS and Statistika KZU due to a lack of public
references to the software. However, we were able to uncover references to contracts fulfilled by GosNIIAS to
provide the MID with various automated consular information services solutions.
Specifically, we were able to uncover a series of public procurement records that list the Russian Ministry of
Foreign Affairs (Министерство иностранных дел Российской Федерации) as the customer for single-source
contracts fulfilled by GosNIIAS in this area.
Two of the potentially relevant contracts discovered include a procurement order (#0173100002211000012)
for software maintenance for the operation of automated systems in the consular department of the MID and a
procurement order (#0173100002213000006) for the maintenance of comprehensive system software for
protecting personal data during processing on consular systems for the MID. In both of the contracts, the
Ministry of Foreign Affairs was listed as the customer and GosNIIAS as the supplier.
The following images were taken from the contracts, the first detailing the services procured from GoSNIIAS
by the MID as well as information on the amount in rubles that would be paid for the services.
Information on the services procured from contract #0173100002211000012
8/13
The second screenshot shows GosNIIAS as the supplier of the services, as well as the organization’s
address, fax phone number, and tax IDs.
Information on the supplier (GosNIIAS) of contract #0173100002213000006
Despite the lack of a specific reference to Statistika KZU, the various contracts reflect the work done by
GosNIIAS for the Russian MID in the field of consular department data handling, with the two specific
contracts pinpointed above detailing work scoping that could plausibly encompass a software solution such as
Statistika KZU.
Other public indications of GosNIIAS involvement in Russian Ministry of Foreign Affairs consular service
provision can be found; for example, a public portal for consular service reservation credits GosNIIAS for the
development of the site.
GosNIIAS credited for work on a public portal for
consular service reservation
The KONNI Malware
Believed to have been used since as early as 2014, KONNI was initially known to only serve as an infostealer.
Later versions steadily increased its feature-set up to its apparent peak in 2016 where it offered a variety of
stealer functionality (browser data, clipboard, keylogging) in addition to common remote administration
capabilities as reported by Talos Intelligence, followed by a sharp reduction of functionality in 2017, and only
minimal adjustments since.
Current samples, such as the one observed in this instance, only come with a minimal set of capabilities for
file transfers, command execution and configuration of check-in intervals. The tool is tracked under other
names, including “UpDog” by Proofpoint.
The malware has generally been associated with use by DPRK nexus actors. The threat actor typically
referred to as Konni Group due to its prolific use of the tool, also tracked as TA406, is generally understood to
fall under the Kimsuky cluster of DPRK Reconnaissance General Bureau-linked actors. The KONNI malware
has also been linked to other actors within the DPRK nexus, including APT37.
9/13
Installation
Both installers came in the form of an MSI file with the malware integrated into the benign installation process.
When a user runs the backdoored installer, a CustomAction triggers execution of the first stage, which detects
the environment (32/64 bit) and selects the appropriate payload. The exact implementation differs for both
inspected samples — we have observed a VBScript and a small executable performing the same tasks.
In both cases, another batch file is eventually executed, which is responsible for copying the files and setting
up the Windows service for persistence and execution simultaneously, as well as copying the included
configuration alongside the payload file.
Final .bat file for both samples
The service name is chosen to be inconspicuous, with “Windows image Acquisition Service” being very
similar to an existing, legitimate Windows service.
Configuration
The configuration file copied during the malware installation process contains the C2 servers and is encrypted
using AES-CTR, with the service name used as key.
You can grab a script to decrypt such configuration files from our GitHub.
We have extracted the C2s from the present samples — you can find them in the IoC section at the end of the
blogpost.
Interestingly, one of the C2 domains we identified was “victory-2024[.]mywebcommunity[.]org.” The consistent
use of the word “victory” in various aspects of Konni Group/TA406 activity has been highlighted previously by
Proofpoint researchers, who identified it as the HTTP title of the version of the PHP e-mail sending tool Star
used by the group as well as in an executable deployed in a campaign suspected to have been undertaken by
the group. Researchers noted that the word had also been employed in various passwords by a Kimsuky
cluster actor tracked as TA408, an observation corroborated in earlier research published by ESTsecurity.
10/13
Particularly interestingly from our standpoint, a late 2021 campaign suspected to have leveraged the KONNI
malware to target the Russian MID was identified in public reporting by Lumen researchers in early 2022.
While this campaign will be explored in more detail later in this blogpost, we note that a C2 domain identified
in this campaign was “”victory-2020.atwebpages[.]com.” This may be indicative of a consistent domain name
pattern (victory-yyyy) being employed in campaigns seeking to deploy KONNI against Russian MID targets,
though we cannot preclude the use of this domain name pattern in C2 for other campaigns.
Capabilities
KONNI’s recent command set has remained largely unchanged and only permits operators to execute
commands and receive their output, upload and download files and specify sleep intervals (connectivity check
interval, check in interval). Communication is done via HTTP.
For a check-in, KONNI runs the following commands and sends the output to the C2:
systeminfotasklist
For file transfers, KONNI checks the extensions against a list of file types it transfers as is. Other file
extensions are compressed into a .CAB archive and then sent.
The list of extensions transferred unchanged:
z..rar.cab.docx.xlsx
The Bigger Picture
DPRK nexus cyberespionage targeting sensitive Russian sectors is a long-standing phenomenon. In 2019, for
example, Check Point Research stated that they had observed a “coordinated North Korean attack against
Russian entities” leveraging known DPRK tooling. In 2020, meanwhile, Russian press reported on Kimsuky
cluster activity purportedly impacting targets such as defense conglomerate Rostec.
The discovery, however, comes amidst a broader context of increasing geopolitical proximity between Russia
and the DPRK in the aftermath of the former’s renewed invasion of Ukraine in 2022, reflected in a high-profile
summit between the two countries’ leaders in 2023 as well as consistent reports that large-scale transfers of
artillery ammunition from the DPRK to Russia had taken place in order to support the latter’s ongoing invasion
effort, likely in exchange for boons such as technical support in areas of key interest to the DPRK such as its
ballistic missile program or natural resource provision.
In spite of this evolving strategic relationship, however, DPRK nexus cyberespionage efforts against Russian
targets of interest in sensitive sectors such as government or defense appear to be ongoing. Notably, in late
2023, SentinelLabs published findings from a “leaked email collection” that indicated that Russian missile and
rocket engineering bureau NPO Mashinostroyeniya had identified a breach in mid-May 2022 that, according
to SentinelLabs researchers, featured several overlaps with known DPRK activity.
Microsoft, meanwhile, has disclosed several additional alleged DPRK-linked incidents that impacted Russian
victims in 2023. According to the firm, threat actor Ruby Sleet (CERIUM) purportedly compromised an
unnamed Russian aerospace research institute in March 2023. Onyx Sleet (PLUTONIUM), another DPRK-
linked group, compromised an unspecified device at a Russian university in the same month. Finally, Opal
11/13
Sleet (OSMIUM/Konni Group) purportedly targeted Russian diplomatic entities via phishing, also in March
2023.
KONNI deployment against Russian foreign policy targets
Within the context of DPRK nexus cyberespionage targeting Russia, a few data points in recent years have
specifically involved KONNI or related tooling in activity that appeared to target Russian foreign policy-
relevant targets.
In 2018, Palo Alto Networks researchers detailed a campaign leveraging a KONNI variant that they dubbed
NOKKI targeting “politically-motivated victims in Eurasia and possibly Southeast Asia.” As part of this
campaign, the researchers uncovered a series of samples with Cyrillic contents relevant to Russian political
matters. While it remains unclear whether the Russian MID was the ultimate end-target of this activity, it can
plausibly be assessed as representing an early instance of KONNI(-adjacent) deployment against targets in
the broader sphere of Russian foreign policy interests.
In a similar vein, Malwarebytes researchers uncovered a campaign in mid-2021 involving the use of KONNI
leveraging Russian language lures concerning Russian-Korean trade and economic issues, and a meeting of
a Russian-Mongolian intergovernmental commission. While the specific targeting of the campaign remains
unclear, the discovery nonetheless constitutes another instance of KONNI deployment being facilitated via
Russian-language lures with content relevant to Russian foreign policy interests.
The publicly available data point with perhaps the most explicit relevance to our finding is the late 2021
campaign uncovered by Lumen researchers and Cluster 25 researchers already mentioned earlier in this
blogpost, involving very similar TTPs and targeting to our finding. The campaign occurred in multiple stages,
leveraging tools such as spoofed MID login portals for credential harvesting, a fake malicious installer for a
Russian state-mandated vaccination registration tool, and trojanized screensaver attachments to target MID
personnel in a “highly targeted” manner.
Finally, as noted above, Microsoft disclosed a March 2023 case in which an account linked to Konni Group
targeted Russian “diplomatic government entities” with phishing e-mails. Further details were not provided
concerning this activity.
The sample we uncovered, therefore, appears to fit into an established pattern of KONNI deployment against
Russian foreign policy targets, with the 2021 campaign uncovered by Lumen and Cluster25 researchers
appearing to be particularly similar in its execution and targeting.
Caveats and Open Questions
A number of caveats and open questions remain concerning this finding.
Is this a legitimate software installer?
We cannot conclusively assess whether the software installer itself is legitimate as we were unable to find
corroborating references to the existence of Statistika KZU in the public domain. Additionally, we were unable
to test the proper functionality of the tool itself.
It should be noted nonetheless that there are strong indicators in favour of Statistika KZU being a legitimate
tool. These include the GosNIIAS contracts for technical consular service provision and the inclusion of
12/13
complete user manuals in the installer discovered.
Furthermore, as noted previously, we were able to use the instructions provided in the user manual to access
the tool offline, and the UI layout post-authentication corresponded to the contents of the user manual, lending
further credibility to the notion that the backdoored software installer itself may be legitimate.
If the software or installer are not legitimate, considerable effort would appear to have been invested into
giving them the veneer of legitimacy.
If it is a legitimate installer, is it publicly obtainable?
If the software installer is indeed legitimate, the natural follow-on question is whether it is publicly obtainable in
any way. Investigation on our part, as noted previously, found no public records concerning Statistika KZU or
its installer.
It remains possible, however, that a legitimate Statistika KZU installer may have been acquired by the actors
via an unidentified public channel.
If the installer is legitimate but not publicly obtainable, how was it acquired by the attackers for
backdooring?
If the software installer is legitimate and was not obtained publicly, the question of how the attackers were
able to obtain a sample for backdooring emerges.
We are unable to offer any concrete conclusions in this regard. As noted above, however, KONNI and KONNI-
linked activity targeting Russian foreign policy end-targets including the MID has been observed for many
years, potentially providing many opportunities for internal tool identification and subsequent acquisition or
exfiltration for backdooring purposes.
Final Thoughts
As noted by experts, the public discovery and discussion of so-called “red on red” activity between the DPRK
and Russia remains necessarily limited due to fundamental visibility constraints. Given the VirusTotal upload
date, this finding would appear to indicate that as of early 2024 such activity remains, at the very least, alive
and well.
The attempted use of a backdoored software installer that either is or is masquerading as a tool intended
specifically for internal use within the Russian Ministry of Foreign Affairs is likely the most interesting aspect of
this finding. Whether legitimate or otherwise, the backdoored installer is indicative in itself of highly specific
targeting against the MID by virtue of the stated use-case for Statistika KZU. Such activity is in line with but
also an evolution from historical KONNI deployment that also appeared to specifically target the MID and its
personnel.
It also indicates that this highly specific targeting of the MID by the DPRK appears to have continued in spite
of the increasing recent strategic alignment of the DPRK and Russia, in line with other DPRK threat activity
targeting strategically sensitive Russian government and economic sectors. To some extent, this should not
come as a surprise; increasing strategic proximity would not be expected to fully overwrite extant DPRK
collection needs, with an ongoing need on the part of the DPRK to be able to assess and verify Russian
foreign policy planning and objectives.
13/13
Some accounts of the origins of the DPRK’s cyber program detail the role purportedly played by Russian
instructors in the early years of foundational institutions in the program such as the then-Mirim College.
Though details remain murky, the possibility remains that this may represent a classic case of the chickens
coming home to roost.
Indicators of compromise can be found below; as noted earlier in the blogpost, a script to decrypt KONNI
configuration files can be found in our GitHub repository.
IoCs
Samples
58bcd90f6f04c005c892267a3dfe91d1154d064482b07715ad5802f57c1ea32d    StatRKZU.msi

9339eaf1d77bb0324e393a08a6180fe0658761fc0cd20ba25081963286dfb9c7    wiasvc32.dll

b60dc12833110098f5eec9a51749d227db7a12d4e91a100a4fd8815695f1093f    wiasvc64.dll
victory-2024.mywebcommunity[.]org

3cym4ims.medianewsonline[.]com
j1p75639.medianewsonline[.]com
99695njd.myartsonline[.]com

mhhnv7s9.myartsonline[.]com

g66nzt8q.mygamesonline[.]org
p593d8g9.mygamesonline[.]org
mbfasq54.mypressonline[.]com
tl2j38w9.mypressonline[.]com
t8nptw2h.mywebcommunity[.]org
w9uzs9la.mywebcommunity[.]org

zcvbm1zv.onlinewebshop[.]net
zomfaa9a.onlinewebshop[.]net
694qf6w8.scienceontheweb[.]net

24ev0apa.scienceontheweb[.]net

c6cdg4su.sportsontheweb[.]net
5s6bqbea.sportsontheweb[.]net
jbkza9h7.atwebpages[.]com

88zr7cua.atwebpages[.]com
p8tebfel.getenjoyment[.]net
cor8xcib.getenjoyment[.]net
