By Insikt Group
®
May 8, 2024
Iran-Aligned Emerald Divide 
Influence Campaign Evolves to 
Exploit Israel-Hamas Conflict
THREAT
ANALYSIS
THREAT ANALYSIS
Executive Summary
Advanced influence threat actors likely aligned with Iran are conducting a persistent malign influence
campaign. This campaign seeks to psychologically manipulate Israeli citizens to take real-world actions
that exacerbate ideological divisions within Israeli society and undermine the Israeli government. Insikt
Group tracks this influence campaign as being conducted by Emerald Divide, which overlaps with an
influence operation Microsoft attributes to likely Iranian state threat actor Storm-1364; it also overlaps
with online activities the Shin Bet attributes to Iran’s security services.
Since 2021, Emerald Divide has demonstrated the ability to dynamically shift influence operations,
activities, and objectives based on Israel’s evolving political landscape, most recently seeking to exploit
the ongoing Israel-Hamas conflict to sow discontent among Israeli citizens regarding the Israeli
government’s response to Hamas’s attacks. This Emerald Divide influence campaign is ongoing,
continually adopting new and innovative influence tactics and techniques, such as using digital emailing
campaigns hosted on a crowdfunding platform, social media reference landing pages, and a geographic
web mapping platform, as well as emerging technology such as artificial intelligence (AI)-generated
deepfakes, likely increasing the campaign’s ability to reach targeted audiences and drive engagement.
The observed increase in advanced influence threat actors adopting and implementing AI will likely
continue to improve over time with advances in technology and repetition of operational employment,
likely increasing the overall effectiveness of influence operations to achieve behavioral change in line
with a specific objective.
Emerald Divide has consistently used a robust influence infrastructure consisting of over sixteen social
media accounts appealing to specific and sometimes conflicting target audiences, thereby playing both
sides of contentious socio-political debates and provoking division. Currently, the campaign continues
to actively use seven primary social media accounts and a large coordinated inauthentic behavior (CIB)
network on social media, demonstrating this campaign’s ability to avoid account and network
takedowns.
Emerald Divide has likely succeeded in influencing its target audience to engage in specific and
observable physical actions, such as purportedly displaying posters and actively participating in
anti-government protests, thereby using the information environment to achieve physical results. The
campaign has also demonstrated the capability to harvest personally identifiable information (PII) as
well as dox Israeli officials. Following Hamas’s October 7, 2023, attacks against Israel, Emerald Divide
has increased its overall aggressiveness in both stylistic content as well as the nature of its online
engagements. Emerald Divide will continue to be a security threat and will likely adapt its approach
based on targets of opportunity that present competing opinions within Israeli society, such as, in the
near term, the Israeli government's handling of the ongoing hostage crisis, and, in the medium to long
term, Israel’s next legislative election, which is scheduled to take place in October 2026.
As Emerald Divide persists, collaboration between government, technology companies, and security
research organizations to track, monitor, and disrupt this influence network and its associated threat
1
TA-2024-0508
Recorded Future® | www.recordedfuture.com
THREAT ANALYSIS
actors will likely reduce the campaign’s effectiveness in its current form. However, the campaign’s
demonstrated ability to replicate and advance operational tradecraft using new infrastructure suggests
the potential to persist in the long term. Additionally, public awareness of this campaign and its
corresponding infrastructure will likely reduce the risk of unwitting online users engaging with and
subsequently being influenced by the network. Executives and public figures being aware of this
campaign will likely mitigate any potential negative impact on personal and organizational brand
reputation, as awareness allows them to actively avoid any interaction with this network, including
inadvertently providing passive support, such as access to online infrastructure.
Key Findings
●
Insikt Group continues to track Emerald Divide as it employs at least seven primary social media
accounts and a CIB network of over 250 accounts.
●
Emerald Divide continues to demonstrate the ability to dynamically shift influence operations,
activities, and objectives based on Israel’s evolving political landscape, most recently seeking to
exploit the ongoing Israel-Hamas conflict.
●
The network has adopted innovative influence tactics, techniques, and procedures (TTPs), such
as using a social media reference landing page, Linktree; digital emailing campaigns on the
crowdfunding platform Drove; the geographic web mapping platform Google Maps; Google
documents; and QR codes.
●
Emerald Divide will likely continue to use generative AI to produce influential and deceptive
content based on its historical use of deepfake videos impersonating political and religious
leaders, which received significant online engagement.
●
The network demonstrates the ability to influence and persuade its target audience to take
specific physical actions, such as providing information or displaying posters, likely emboldening
influence threat actors to replicate and advance similar operational tradecraft in the future.
2
TA-2024-0508
Recorded Future® | www.recordedfuture.com
THREAT ANALYSIS
Background
Advanced influence threat actors likely aligned with Iran continue to conduct a persistent malign
influence campaign that began in 2021. This campaign seeks to psychologically manipulate Israeli
citizens to increase ideological division on social and political issues. Conducted by Emerald Divide, it
has demonstrated the ability to dynamically shift influence efforts and objectives based on Israel’s
evolving political landscape by rapidly changing and developing new infrastructure and TTPs. Since
October 2023, the campaign has transformed its focus to the Israel-Hamas conflict to sow distrust and
discontent regarding the Israeli government’s response to Hamas’s attacks against Israel.
On February 7, 2024, Microsoft attributed activity observed in the most recent campaign operation to
influence threat actor Storm-1364, which Microsoft assesses as a likely Iranian state threat actor and
which Insikt Group tracks as Emerald Divide. Microsoft’s findings are also consistent with the Israel
Security Agency (or “Shin Bet”) attributing specific social media accounts discussed in this report to
Iranian state influence operations targeting Israel.
Additionally, on December 20, 2023, Haaretz Daily Newspaper published an article detailing a
two-year-long malign influence campaign targeting Israeli citizens to increase social and political
polarization within Israeli society. According to Haaretz, details of the ongoing influence campaign were
provided by researchers from Israel-based “disinformation watchdog group” FakeReporter. These
Haaretz and FakeReporter findings are also consistent with the Shin Bet’s June 2023 disclosure that
“Iranian influence activity on social media in Israel … [seeks] to exacerbate the social and political rifts in
Israel over the entire political spectrum”. In late June 2023, the Shin Bet informed Israeli media outlets
of the agency's ongoing “overt and covert activities”, referencing its efforts to disrupt the reported
Iranian influence activity. Insikt Group notes that the Shin Bet previously voiced concern regarding
inauthentic social media accounts attributed to Iran attempting to increase polarization by targeting
Israel’s political wedge issues during the country’s 2022 parliamentary elections. In August 2022, the
agency warned that Russia and Iran may amplify polarizing rhetoric and false information to increase
social unrest.
Analysis of the Influence Campaign
Insikt Group determined that the current Emerald Divide campaign has three sequential influence
operations, each with specific influence objectives and corresponding malign narratives targeting Israeli
citizens. This report arranges these influence operations chronologically, from campaign initiation in
2021 to ongoing activity observed up to February 2024. It also breaks down each included influence
operation by corresponding narrative, audience, infrastructure, and capabilities. Operation three
1
remains ongoing at the time of writing. The three influence operations’ respective objectives in support
of the overarching campaign are summarized below:
1 Throughout this investigation, we used Recorded Future’s Diamond Model for Influence Operations, Atlantic Council’s SCOTCH Framework, and
the Disinformation Analysis and Risk Management (DISARM) Foundation‘s Red Team and Blue Team Frameworks to identify and summarize the
predominant malign influence narratives targeting Israel’s domestic population.
3
TA-2024-0508
Recorded Future® | www.recordedfuture.com
THREAT ANALYSIS
●
Operation one influence objective: increase social conflict between Israel’s “ultra-Orthodox”
religious groups and Israel’s LGBTQ+ community
●
Operation two influence objective: incite social unrest by pivoting individuals on the left and
right of Israel’s political spectrum against each other
●
Operation three influence objective: sow discontent among Israeli citizens regarding the Israeli
government’s response to Hamas’s attacks against Israel
Due to the nature and scope of influence operations, especially covert operations, all numeric values
associated with these activities, such as social media posts, likes, shares, and other impressions,
remain approximate and ongoing. This report outlines each operation analyzed below with an
introduction of the corresponding influence objective, a summary of the narrative and target audience,
and a technical analysis of the infrastructure threat actors used and capabilities they demonstrated
during the operation. Comprehensive lists of influence operations capabilities observed and
demonstrated in each operation are provided in Appendix A using Recorded Future’s Diamond Model
for Influence Operations.
Operation One Influence Objective: Increase Social Conflict Between Israel’s
“Ultra-Orthodox” Religious Groups and Israel’s LGBTQ+ Community
Based on reporting by Haaretz Daily Newspaper, FakeReporter, and the Shin Bet, Emerald Divide’s
influence campaign began its operations in 2021 with the establishment of multiple social media
accounts seeking to increase social conflict between Israel’s “ultra-Orthodox” religious groups and
Israel’s LGBTQ+ community. Emerald Divide used wide-ranging influence TTPs in an attempt to pivot
these groups against each other by fabricating and manipulating online content about issues specific to
religious and LGBTQ+ communities.
As an example, Emerald Divide developed inauthentic online personas with generative AI to
impersonate Israeli rabbis, using the inauthentic accounts to disseminate online content expressing
negative sentiment toward the LGBTQ+ community. Simultaneously, Emerald Divide then used
additional inauthentic social media accounts aligned with the LGBTQ+ community to criticize the
content originally disseminated by the inauthentic rabbis. By creating inauthentic accounts aligned with
both communities, Emerald Divide sought to manufacture an online echo chamber capable of inciting
social conflict between Israel’s ultra-Orthodox religious groups and its LGBTQ+ community.
Narrative and Audience
Narratives in support of this influence objective included inflammatory arguments opposing ideological
aspects of groups aligned with ultra-Orthodox beliefs and groups in support of LGBTQ+ rights. This first
influence operation had two primary target audiences: Israelis who align ideologically with
ultra-Orthodox religious views and Israelis who support the LGBTQ+ community. Throughout this
operation, the campaign attempted to pivot these two audiences against each other through various
efforts, such as manufacturing a social movement titled “movement to stop the ultra-Orthodox” and a
4
TA-2024-0508
Recorded Future® | www.recordedfuture.com
THREAT ANALYSIS
YouTube channel hosting deepfake videos of Israeli Rabbi Shlomo Moshe Amar condemning LGBTQ+
rights.
Infrastructure and Capabilities
Infrastructure used throughout the first operation of this campaign included social media accounts,
primarily on Instagram, Telegram, TikTok, YouTube, and another mainstream social media platform. The
development of infrastructure to support this operation surged in 2022 and then culminated in 2023,
with three Telegram channels persisting to support the second operation of this campaign. Trends
observed during this operation include a shift in the social media platforms being used from primarily
Instagram and another mainstream social media platform to Telegram.
Figure 1: Timeline of accounts operationalized throughout the first operation of this campaign (Source: Recorded Future)
In August 2021, the account “הישראלים
החילונים🏳️‍🌈” (@TheSecondIsrael) was created and began
reposting content related to the LGBTQ+ community (DISARM Technique T0007: Create Inauthentic
Social Media Pages and Groups). From September 2021 through October 2021, the account increased
the number of posts featuring original content expressing positive sentiment around issues related to
the LGBTQ+ community and posts expressing negative sentiment toward individuals with Orthodox
religious views. Notably, in February 2022, the @TheSecondIsrael account posted a video showing
what is described as a “second Israel map” posted in Rabin Square, located in Tel Aviv, Israel. This is the
first identified instance of Emerald Divide’s campaign purportedly persuading individuals to physically
5
TA-2024-0508
Recorded Future® | www.recordedfuture.com
THREAT ANALYSIS
display influential posters, an influence technique that was attempted multiple times throughout this
campaign (DISARM Technique T0057.002: Conduct Symbolic Action).
Figure 2: Screenshot of the “second Israel map” posted in Rabin
Square (Source: Mainstream Social Media)
In October 2021 — two months following the creation of the @TheSecondIsrael account — an account,
“Idit Klein” @KleinIdit, was created to impersonate the president of a legitimate LGBTQ+ advocacy
group (DISARM Technique T0099: Prepare Assets Impersonating Legitimate Entities). The @KleinIdit
inauthentic account consistently reposted content published by the @TheSecondIsrael account to
include the aforementioned “second Israel map”. Other social media accounts observed posting
@TheSecondIsrael content, such as accounts “Fatma Sam” (@FatmaSam9) — notably, this account has
posted content involving United States (US) politics — and “Emily Pearl” (@EmilyPearlUS), are assessed
to likely be inauthentic based on the date of account creation, duration of observed activity matching
that of the @TheSecondIsrael account, and frequency of reposting @TheSecondIsrael account content
(DISARM Technique T0090: Create Inauthentic Accounts). Both accounts have been inactive since
December 2021, though they remain operational with their account locations listed in the US.
6
TA-2024-0508
Recorded Future® | www.recordedfuture.com
THREAT ANALYSIS
In March 2022, the Instagram account “stopharedim” was created and featured the same profile picture
as the @TheSecondIsrael account. The “stopharedim” account posted similar and often identical
content as the @TheSecondIsrael account about issues related to the LGBTQ+ community and negative
sentiment toward individuals with Orthodox religious views. A notable example of cross-posting content
includes a post by the “stopharedim” account featuring the same aforementioned “second Israel map”
video, posted ten months after the video was originally posted on a mainstream social media platform
(DISARM Technique T0119: Cross-Posting).
Three months after the creation of the “stopharedim” Instagram account, in June 2022, the account
“ח"תל” (@stopharedim) was created, featuring similar content; however, it gained negligible online
engagement with only two followers. In the same month, the Instagram account “changebelievers” was
created, featuring thematically similar content to both the @TheSecondIsrael and “stopharedim”
Instagram accounts and receiving relatively low online engagement with 35 followers. An example post
provided below demonstrates the intention to pivot different communities against each other. Notably,
the post provides a “source” that resolves to an article published by Haaretz, demonstrating an attempt
by the influence threat actor to reframe the article’s context for psychological effect (DISARM
Technique T0023.001: Reframe Context). All three accounts described above have stopped posting
content, though they remain operational.
Figure 3: Screenshot of a post by “changebelievers” attempting to incite
social conflict (Source: Instagram)
Concurrently, in April 2022, the YouTube channel “Rabbi Shlomo Amar” (@rabbishlomoamar3387) was
created. This channel features eight videos depicting Rabbi Shlomo Amar, two of which are almost
certainly AI-generated deepfakes, as later reported by Haaretz in 2023 (DISARM Technique T0087.001:
Develop AI-Generated Videos [Deepfakes]). The videos include sermons and commentary expressing
negative sentiment toward LGBTQ+ rights. This activity represents the first of multiple identified
instances in this campaign of using AI-generated content to impersonate a key leader to deceive the
respective audience. An additional attempt to impersonate a well-known individual occurred in July
2022 with the creation of an account, “Noam Cohen” (@Real_NoamCohen), and a corresponding
7
TA-2024-0508
Recorded Future® | www.recordedfuture.com
THREAT ANALYSIS
Telegram account, t[.]me/RealNoamCohen. The @Real_NoamCohen account includes a hyperlink to the
inauthentic website “Jewish Guardian of the Torah Movement” (JGTM; jgtm[.]org), which is currently
offline (DISARM Technique T0013: Create Inauthentic Websites). According to Haaretz, the campaign
used the jgtm[.]org website to publish pro-Orthodox content.
During September 2022, the Telegram channel “Boxing - Gush Katif - Returning Home” (אגרוף-גוש
חוזרים-קטיף
הביתה; t[.]me/s/JewishFist) — attributed by the Shin Bet to Iran’s security services — began
posting content that was generally supportive of Israel and focused on national security issues such as
Israeli military operations, terrorist arrests, and weapon seizures. A limited number of posts also
included derogatory comments and themes directed toward the LGBTQ+ community. The Telegram
channel “אגרוף” (Fist; t[.]me/JewishFistt), almost certainly a backup account for ​t[.]me/s/JewishFist,
began posting identical content in January 2023. Both Telegram channels have persisted throughout
each operation in this campaign and remain active, with t[.]me/s/JewishFist having 4,980 subscribers.
Following Hamas’s attacks against Israel on October 7, 2023, both channels increased the frequency of
their posts, shifting content focus to the ongoing conflict as well as sharing threats from Hamas and
Hezbollah, which are further analyzed in the third operation of this campaign.
In November 2022, the account “ישראל
השנייה” (@SecularIsraelis) was created, gaining 815 followers, as
well as the TikTok account “ישראל
השנייה” (@secularisrael), gaining only nine followers and 103 likes.
Both accounts posted similar content as the @TheSecondIsrael account about issues related to the
LGBTQ+ community and negative sentiment toward individuals with Orthodox religious views. Two
months later, in January 2023, the Telegram channel “Second Israel” (ישראל
השנייה;
t[.]me/s/IsraeltheSecond), which has a similar name to the aforementioned @TheSecondIsrael social
media account, was created. Second Israel’s profile states: “standing against extremism, fanaticism,
racism is our mission. Be our voice!” A second Telegram channel was also identified mirroring the
Telegram channel Second Israel; however, it includes a “2” at the end of the account name
(t[.]me/IsraeltheSecond2), almost certainly representing that this is a backup account in the scenario of
an account takedown.
The almost certain backup account t[.]me/IsraeltheSecond2 has 113 members, including Telegram user
“Sarah Efron” (@SarahEfron5), who matches the persona identified by Fakereporter associated with
attempts to direct message Israeli activists to deliver posters for use in anti-government protests. The
Sarah Efron persona was identified as a member of multiple social media accounts throughout the
operations of this campaign, suggesting this persona is almost certainly an inauthentic account
operated by Emerald Divide influence threat actors (DISARM Technique T0097: Create Personas).
8
TA-2024-0508
Recorded Future® | www.recordedfuture.com
THREAT ANALYSIS
Figure 4: (Left) Screenshot provided by Fakereporter of persona “Sarah Efron” direct messaging
Israeli activists; (Right) screenshot of Telegram account @SarahEfron5, who is a member of
t[.]me/IsraeltheSecond2 (Source: Fakereporter, Telegram)
The final Telegram channel established during this operation in February 2023 was the channel “Two
Hearts” (שני
לבבות; t[.]me/twolovelyhearts). The channel resembles a platform used for Israelis
interested in romantic relationships; however, it also posted content initially supporting the LGBTQ+
community and then shifted focus around March 2023 to Israeli politics, specifically criticizing Prime
Minister Netanyahu. This activity almost certainly corresponds to an overarching shift of the campaign
in February 2023 to the second operation analyzed in the next section of this report. The channel
features cross-posted content from the previously described Telegram channel, “Second Israel”, and
the persona Sarah Efron is among its visible members. The channel has 207 members and remains
active, with posts soliciting contact to arrange romantic engagements and posts offering various
personal documents for sale, such as driver’s licenses, college certificates, weapons licenses, and
medical documents. Similar to previously mentioned accounts, content posted on this channel includes
almost certainly AI-generated images expressing negative sentiment toward Prime Minister Netanyahu,
suggesting regular use of AI across the network to produce content.
9
TA-2024-0508
Recorded Future® | www.recordedfuture.com
THREAT ANALYSIS
Figure 5: (Left) Screenshot of “Two Hearts” dating channel; (Right) screenshot
of political post in the “Two Hearts” dating channel (Source: Telegram )
2
Operation Two Influence Objective: Incite Social Unrest by Pitting Individuals
on the Left and Right of Israel’s Political Spectrum Against Each Other
Based on content analysis, Emerald Divide’s influence campaign shifted focus around February 2023
from directly targeting Israel’s Orthodox religious groups and LGBTQ+ community to attempting to incite
conflict among Israelis on both the left and right sides of Israel’s political spectrum to increase social
unrest. This operation of the campaign centered primarily around three social media accounts identified
as “No Voice” (אין
כל), “The Hunters” (הציידים), and “Traitors’ Trial” (משפט
בוגדים), which Microsoft
attributed to influence threat actor Storm-1364, which is also described by Microsoft as a likely Iranian
state threat actor. All three accounts focused online activity around judicial reforms proposed by Prime
Minister Netanyahu and then on Israel’s 2023 elections. Compared to operation one, Emerald Divide
increased its aggressiveness in both stylistic content produced by the network and the nature of its
online engagements.
Narrative and Audience
Narratives amplified throughout this operation centered around social discontentment with — at that
time — proposed judicial reforms spearheaded by Prime Minister Netanyahu and, subsequently, with
allegations surrounding Israel’s 2023 elections that the reforms were part of an attempted coup d'etat.3
Central to this second operation of the influence campaign were attempts to persuade Israeli citizens to
take specific, physical actions, ranging from displaying posters to actively participating in
anti-government protests. Similar to the first operation, this operation involved two primary target
3 https://t[.]me/isnotvoice/17
2 https://t[.]me/twolovelyhearts
10
TA-2024-0508
Recorded Future® | www.recordedfuture.com
THREAT ANALYSIS
audiences: Israelis ideologically aligned with what is broadly characterized as the “left” and “right” sides
of Israel’s political spectrum.
Infrastructure and Capabilities
The infrastructure used throughout the campaign’s second operation focused primarily on Telegram and
WhatsApp. Infrastructure development in support of this operation occurred in early 2023 while also
using infrastructure established during the previous operation, shifting content focus to support the
updated influence objective. Trends observed during this operation include using Telegram channels
and the social media reference landing page Linktree to direct online users to other platforms, such as
WhatsApp and Google Documents, for more direct engagement. The graphic below indicates the dates
on which specific accounts were operationalized, including account creation, last observed activity, and
accounts that persisted beyond the end of this operation.
Figure 6: Timeline of accounts operationalized throughout this operation (Source: Recorded Future)
In February 2023, the Telegram channel “No Voice” (אין
כל; t[.]me/isnotvoice) began posting content that
actively rejected proposed judicial reforms and supported left-leaning political demonstrations. No
Voice shared information about protests, attempting to persuade members of the group to take physical
actions, such as posting signs (DISARM Tactic TA10: Drive Offline Activity). The No Voice Telegram
channel included a hyperlink to a Linktree landing page that provided additional links to Telegram,
11
TA-2024-0508
Recorded Future® | www.recordedfuture.com
THREAT ANALYSIS
Whatsapp, Facebook, and a Google document (DISARM Technique T0122: Direct Users to Alternative
Platforms).
Translated from Hebrew, the Google document stated: “Protests are expanding and continue to grow
and we need new partners! Want to cooperate for a better future of the country? Please fill out the
form”. The document goes on to provide questions soliciting PII (as exemplified in Figure 7 below), such
as full name, phone number, mailing address, physical address, and other specific requests for
information, like, “do you have any special skills that you can harness for protest activity” and “the
amount [likely referring to monetary compensation] required for cooperation”. Notably, under the
“special skills” question, the document provides a list of 25 box-check options that included various
skills, such as, “graffiti”, “delivery”, “hovercraft” — likely referring to drones or unmanned aerial vehicles
(UAVs) — “communication”, “fundraising”, “website management”, “video editing”, “graphic design”, and
“use of social networks”. Based on the information it requested, this Google document is likely a tool
Emerald Divide used to recruit individuals to participate in activities supporting the influence campaign,
specifically activities related to anti-government protests.
Figure 7: (Left) Screenshot of No Voice Linktree; (Right) Screenshot of No Voice Google document soliciting PII
(Source: Telegram )
4
According to FakeReporter, the No Voice social media account maintained a presence on a popular US
social media platform, promoting the hashtags #novoice and #democracy until the account was
4 https://t[.]me/isnotvoice
12
TA-2024-0508
Recorded Future® | www.recordedfuture.com
THREAT ANALYSIS
suspended in March 2023 (DISARM Technique T0104.006: Create Dedicated Hashtag). According to
Haaretz, No Voice also maintained an Instagram account and Facebook group, both of which were
suspended in June 2023. The No Voice Telegram channel (t[.]me/isnotvoice) has not posted content
since July 2023; however, it remains operational, with 776 subscribers. FakeReporter researchers noted
that the “No Voice” Instagram page originally listed its location as Iran. Additionally, content analysis
conducted by Insikt Group identified posts with direct references to Iran, such as a video using
AI-generated voice-overs and fictitious depictions of Israel in 2043 that includes video footage of the
flag of the​Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps (IRGC) and what is very likely the IRGC Navy conducting
drills, as shown in Figure 8.
Figure 8: Screenshot of a video depicting the IRGC flag (Source: Telegram )
5
In May 2023, the Telegram channel “The Hunters” (הציידים; t[.]me/Hunters940) began posting content
that actively supported proposed judicial reforms and corresponding right-leaning political
demonstrations. The Hunters primarily used WhatsApp and, according to FakeReporter researchers,
actively attempted to infiltrate social groups affiliated with the major right-leaning political party
National Liberal Party, commonly referred to as the Likud Party (DISARM Technique T0043.001: Use
Encrypted Chat Apps). Multiple posts on The Hunters telegram channel include hyperlinks to a
corresponding WhatsApp group invitation (screenshot provided in Figure 9), which is almost certainly
an attempt to drive online traffic to WhatsApp for further direct engagement. The Hunters Telegram
channel (t[.]me/Hunters940) has also not posted content since July 2023; however, it remains
operational, with 207 subscribers.
5 https://t[.]me/isnotvoice
13
TA-2024-0508
Recorded Future® | www.recordedfuture.com
THREAT ANALYSIS
Figure 9: Screenshot of The Hunters
WhatsApp group invitation
(Source: WhatsApp )
6
According to Haaretz, the social media account “Traitors’ Trial” (משפט
בוגדים) became active at the same
time as “The Hunters” account. It posted the personal details of Israeli law enforcement individuals
involved in political demonstrations on social media, exposing their identities in a malicious activity
commonly referred to as doxing (DISARM Technique T0048.004: Dox). FakeReporter researchers
identified “Traitors’ Trial” operating on Telegram and an additional popular social media platform. It also
operated on Drove, an Israeli digital media platform that describes itself as a “technological
crowdfunding platform that focuses on performance and high conversion rate to maximize ROI”
(DISARM Technique T0017: Conduct Fundraising). Notably, the use of Drove to conduct online email
campaigns was identified in more than one instance throughout this campaign and is further analyzed
in the third operation of this campaign. According to Haaretz, Telegram has suspended the “Traitors’
Trial” channel.
Operation Three Influence Objective: Sow Discontent Among Israeli Citizens
Regarding the Israeli Government’s Response to Hamas’s Attacks
Following Hamas’s attack on Israel on October 7, 2023, and the ensuing conflict, Emerald Divide’s
influence campaign shifted focus once again, targeting Israeli citizens’ trust and confidence in their
government’s response to Hamas’s attacks against Israel. During the month of October 2023, multiple
social media accounts were rapidly developed with the objective of sowing distrust and discontent
among Israelis’ views of their government's role and response to the attacks. This operation of the
campaign remains ongoing and includes a large-scale CIB network actively persisting on at least one
mainstream social media platform, demonstrating robust influence infrastructure. Additionally,
consistent with operation two, this operation has demonstrated the ability to solicit PII, likely
6 https://chat[.]whatsapp[.]com/L3V34t0fPUyLIqUvTr1sYG
14
TA-2024-0508
Recorded Future® | www.recordedfuture.com
THREAT ANALYSIS
representing a persistent technique of using Google documents to recruit individuals to participate in
activities supporting the influence campaign.
Narrative and Audience
Narratives amplified throughout this operation include attempts to frame key leaders within the Israeli
government as being responsible for the October 7, 2023, attacks, as well as allegations that certain
members of the government had prior knowledge of Hamas’s attack plans and chose to remain silent in
a deliberate act of betrayal. Additionally, this third operation promoted narratives of consolation,
7
grieving, and retribution, seeking to psychologically manipulate hostage victims’ family members into
taking specific actions, such as initiating gatherings near the families’ homes. This operation’s
8
assessed target audience is, broadly, the Israeli citizenry to undermine their trust and confidence in the
Israeli government.
Infrastructure and Capabilities
The infrastructure used throughout this operation focused primarily on Telegram and Instagram.
Infrastructure development in support of this operation occurred shortly following Hamas’s attacks on
October 7, 2023, while also using infrastructure established during the previous operation, shifting
content focus to support the updated influence objective. Trends observed during this operation
include using CIB networks to facilitate online engagement and continuous attempts to orchestrate
anti-government protests. The graphic below indicates the dates on which specific accounts were
operationalized, including account creation, last observed activity, and accounts that persist.
8 https://t[.]me/BringHomeNow/337
7 https://t[.]me/twolovelyhearts/6616
15
TA-2024-0508
Recorded Future® | www.recordedfuture.com
THREAT ANALYSIS
Figure 10: Timeline of accounts operationalized throughout this operation (Source: Recorded Future)
Following the October 7, 2023, attacks, previously analyzed Telegram channels “Second Israel”
and “Two Hearts” (established during this campaign’s first operation) immediately shifted thematic
content to focus on the emerging conflict, posting identical images on each account criticizing Prime
Minister Netanyahu and suggesting he was to blame for the attacks (DISARM Technique T0082:
Develop New Narratives).
Other posts promoted calls to action for Israelis to protest against their
9 10
government as a response to its alleged failure to prevent the Hamas attacks. Example content, which
was posted on each platform in the days following the October 7, 2023, attacks, is provided below.
Notably, the image on the right includes a caption comparing Prime Minister Netanyahu to a virus,
claiming he weakened the “immune system of Israel”, thus enabling its enemies to attack.
10 https://t[.]me/IsraeltheSecond/233
9 https://t[.]me/twolovelyhearts/6778
16
TA-2024-0508
Recorded Future® | www.recordedfuture.com
THREAT ANALYSIS
Figure 11: (Left) Screenshot of a post on both Telegram channels “Second Israel” and “Two Hearts” on
October 11, 2023; (Right) Screenshot of a post on both Telegram channels “Second Israel” and
“Two Hearts” comparing Netanyahu to a virus (Source: Telegram
)
11 12
Additionally, Telegram channel “Boxing - Gush Katif - Returning Home” (t[.]me/s/JewishFist) —
previously established during this campaign’s first operation — immediately shifted content focus to the
Israel-Hamas conflict, drastically increasing the frequency of its posts per day.
Other similar social
13 14
media accounts on other platforms were also created after the attacks — now hyperlinked in the
t[.]me/s/JewishFist account profile — such as the Instagram account “אגרוף” (@jewish__fist) and TikTok
account “jewishfist” (@jewishfist), which this report further analyzes below.
Content published by the “Boxing - Gush Katif - Returning Home” (t[.]me/s/JewishFist) channel, as well
as the assessed backup channel “אגרוף” (Fist; t.me/JewishFistt), continue to portray a pro-Israel stance;
however, its posts also include graphics and videos of Hamas and Hezbollah propaganda threatening
Israelis. Notably, some posts also include references to Iran, as featured in Figure 12. One post made on
December 22, 2023 (Figure 12 [left]) alludes to the possibility of Iranian arms shipments to the
Palestinian National Authority (PA), with Arabic text on the image that translates to “the moment of
truth and struggle”, with the post itself questioning, “is Iran arming the Palestinian Authority? Is Israel
again falling asleep on guard?” Another post on January 9, 2024 — one day after an Israeli airstrike that
killed Hezbollah senior commander Wissam Al Tawil — features former IRGC-Quds Force (IRGC-QF)
Commander Qassem Soleimani (Figure 13). Similar to other posts featuring Hamas and Hezbollah
propaganda threatening Israelis, these posts about Iranian arms shipments to the PA and pictures of
Soleimani are likely attempts by the influence threat actors to subtly threaten the target audience.
14 https://t[.]me/JewishFist/1768
13 https://t[.]me/JewishFist/1775
12 t[.]me/twolovelyhearts
11 t[.]me/s/IsraeltheSecond
17
TA-2024-0508
Recorded Future® | www.recordedfuture.com
THREAT ANALYSIS
Figure 12: (Left) Screenshot of a December 22, 2023, post on t[.]me/JewishFistt alluding to possible arms
shipments from Iran to the PA; (Right) Screenshot of a February 5, 2024, post on t.me/JewishFistt stating
“the lions of the occupied inside will not sleep in their revenge” (Source: Telegram
)
15 16
Figure 13: Screenshot of January 9, 2024, post on t[.]me/s/JewishFist
featuring Soleimani (Source: Telegram )
17
Following October 2023, the “אגרוף” (Fist; t.me/JewishFistt) backup channel — previously established in
the first operation — began posting almost certainly AI-generated graphics that were not featured on
the original ​t[.]me/s/JewishFist channel. Many of the graphics included culturally derogatory themes
17 https://t[.]me/s/JewishFist
16 https://t[.]me/JewishFistt/8165
15 https://t[.]me/JewishFistt/5968
18
TA-2024-0508
Recorded Future® | www.recordedfuture.com
THREAT ANALYSIS
graphically depicting Hamas fighters and other individuals as rats and pigs (DISARM Technique
T0131.002: Post Borderline Content).18 19
In October 2023, the Instagram account “אגרוף” (@jewish__fist) — also attributed by the Shin Bet to
Iran’s security services — was created and remains active with 792 followers. The account hosts
content about the Israel-Hamas war that is generally pro-Israel and includes commemorative
references to Israelis who have been killed in the conflict. At the time of writing, Insikt Group assesses
that at least 250 of the 792 Instagram accounts following the @jewish__fist Instagram account are
almost certainly inauthentic (DISARM Technique T0092.002: Use Follow Trains). This assessment is
based on account characteristics such as the time of registration, the use of likely AI-enabled profile
pictures, stolen profile pictures from authentic accounts, low number of online engagements, and
irregularities in profile usernames. This activity suggests a large network of inauthentic accounts that is
very likely engaged in CIB to support this ongoing operation.20
Based on a sample of 250 Instagram accounts following the @jewish__fist Instagram account, 72 of the
accounts have a date of registration in November 2023 and 171 in December 2023. These registration
dates indicate that roughly 97% of the 250 selected accounts were created after the @jewish__fist
Instagram account was created in October 2023, corresponding to the onset of the Israel-Hamas
conflict.
Month
Oct. 2023
Nov. 2023
Dec. 2023
Jan. 2024
Total number of new account registrations
6
72
171
1
Additional irregularities are present in the naming conventions for most of the 250 analyzed accounts,
such as generic account names that do not match any element of the corresponding username and
which are generally common one-word first names in the English language. Out of the 250 accounts
analyzed, the names Colton, Jackson, Preston, Hazel, and Landon were each used as account names
for eight different accounts, respectively. Other names were also used multiple times for different
accounts, as visualized in Figure 14.
20 https://www.instagram[.]com/jewish__fist
19 https://t[.]me/JewishFistt/8056
18 https://t[.]me/JewishFistt/8391
19
TA-2024-0508
Recorded Future® | www.recordedfuture.com
THREAT ANALYSIS
Figure 14: Naming convention similarities (Source: Recorded Future)
Other notable inauthentic behavior from the 250 analyzed accounts includes using profile pictures
almost certainly stolen from other authentic social media users’ accounts as well as using basic digital
editing tools to edit images of female members of the Israeli Defense Forces (IDF) to resemble
Palestinian resistance fighters, which is notably inconsistent with the majority of accounts that present
content generally supportive of Israel (DISARM Technique T0086.003: Deceptively Edit Images [Cheap
Fakes]). Additionally, one of the 250 accounts analyzed following the @jewish__fist Instagram account
posted a graphic in December 2023 matching a post made by the account “IRNA News Agency”
(@IrnaEnglish) — the official mainstream social media account of Iranian state-run news outlet Islamic
Republic News Agency (IRNA). The graphic (Figure 15) depicts Prime Minister Netanyahu recklessly
driving a bus full of people. The image was posted by Instagram account @bring_them_hom, with the
caption, “He'll take us to hell”.
20
TA-2024-0508
Recorded Future® | www.recordedfuture.com
THREAT ANALYSIS
Figure 15: Screenshot of graphic posted by @jewish__fist
inauthentic account and the official account of IRNA
(Source: Instagram, Mainstream Social Media)
Also in October 2023, the Telegram channel “Tears of War” (דמעות
המלחמה; t[.]me/demaothamelkhama)
— which the Shin Bet also attributed to Iran’s security services — began posting content specific to
Hamas-captured hostages, missing individuals, and Israeli victims to recruit Israelis to partake in
anti-government demonstrations in response to the continuing hostage crisis (DISARM Technique
T0083: Integrate Target Audience Vulnerabilities into Narrative). Currently, the channel remains active
with 1,990 subscribers and continues to post pictures of abductees and killed individuals while
interjecting content suggesting the Israeli government, especially Prime Minister Netanyahu, is
responsible for the deaths and continued hostage crisis due to its decision to continue military
operations. Multiple posts include the hashtags #remove_now (#עכשיו_הדחה) and
#everything_because_of_him (#הכל_בגללו), referring to Prime Minister Netanyahu.
Similar to other accounts previously described, “Tears of War” has also posted content highlighting
specific posters featured during demonstrations or displayed in specific locations. Some of these posts
also provide coordinates of where the posters were displayed with a link to Google Maps and text “for
live location tracking”. The posters feature the same “Tears of War” logo as well as QR codes, which
provide a hyperlink to the “Tears of War” Linktree, which, like the previously described “No Voice”
Linktree, provides follow-on links to the group’s Telegram account, Instagram account, and a Google
document.
The Google document provides questions soliciting PII, such as name, mailing address,
21
phone number, and residential community; it also contains a question that asks, “in what areas can you
help us”. This last question is followed by a list of box-check options, including “pasting and hanging
21 https://t[.]me/s/demaothamelkhama
21
TA-2024-0508
Recorded Future® | www.recordedfuture.com
THREAT ANALYSIS
funeral notices”, “give flowers to bereaved families”, “transportation”, and “fighting fake news on our
Telegram channel”.
Figure 16: (Left) Screenshot of the “Tears of War” Telegram post featuring Google Map coordinates; (Right)
Screenshot of post comparing Israeli government decisions to hostage crisis (Source: Telegram )
22
One month later, in November 2023, an additional Telegram channel, “BringHomeNow” (מחזירים
אותם
הביתה
עכשיו; t[.]me/BringHomeNow) began posting about individuals Hamas abducted and held hostage.
The description of the channel, translated from Hebrew to English, states its purpose is to recruit
individuals to provide support to families of those who have been kidnapped or are missing. The
channel’s logos and design impersonate the nonprofit organization “Bring Them Home Now”
(specifically, the organization’s Telegram Channel, “BringThemHomeNow”); it creates posts identical to
posts on the authentic “BringThemHomeNow” channel, almost certainly in an attempt to deceive social
media users (DISARM Technique T0099: Prepare Assets Impersonating Legitimate Entities). Similar to
the previously described channels, interjected among most posts on this channel that focus on victims
of the Israel-Hamas conflict are posts that provide hyperlinks to alternate platforms soliciting PII. Two
specific examples are a hyperlink to a Google document, which exhibits the same stylistic
characteristics as both previously discussed Google documents linked to other accounts, and a
hyperlink to a digital emailing campaign hosted on Drove[.]com. Notably, according to the email
campaign’s homepage on Drove[.]com, by participating in the campaign, a user accepts Drove’s “T&C
and Privacy Policy including receiving messages from BringHomeNow”, which suggests that a
participant’s email address would be shared with BringHomeNow.
The Drove campaign webpage
23
provided by t[.]me/BringHomeNow (image provided below) provides an introduction paragraph in
Hebrew and translates it to English as follows:
23 https://www.drove[.]com/campaign/65534add6bb75883a536ccdf
22 https://t[.]me/demaothamelkhama
22
TA-2024-0508
Recorded Future® | www.recordedfuture.com
THREAT ANALYSIS
Time is running out! We must save them! Take 2 minutes today and send this important
email. Our mission is unwavering: to return the kidnapped to their homes immediately and
without any conditions. Together we are a force. Let's bring the children home! The
government's policy strengthened Hamas. The government that abandoned our families
continues to abandon us, incite, divide and engage in political survival. If after all this we
don't replace her, Hamas won. All members of the government, all members of the
coalition, should hear the cries of the families every night. We still do not hear about a
significant plan for their release. The State of Israel needs elections, we have months and
perhaps years of hard fighting, rebuilding, and rehabilitation ahead of us - only a
leadership that has won the people's trust (be it right, left, center) can lead in such
moments Let's help me make that at the top of our country in our unity.
Figure 17: Screenshot of “BringHomeNow” Drove campaign
(Source: Telegram )
24
24 https://t[.]me/BringHomeNow
23
TA-2024-0508
Recorded Future® | www.recordedfuture.com
THREAT ANALYSIS
Attribution
Emerald Divide’s influence campaign is likely being conducted by advanced influence threat actors
aligned with Iran. Utilizing the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) Strategic Communications’
attribution framework, the following factors support this attribution.
Behavioral evidence:
●
During its third operation, Emerald Divide accounts directly referenced Iran multiple times, such
as in a video it posted that used AI-generated voice-overs and fictitious depictions of Israel in
2043, which includes video footage of the​IRGC flag and what is very likely the IRGC Navy
conducting naval drills. Additional posts include images of Qassem Soleimani as well as an image
that suggests the possibility of Iranian arms shipments to the PA.
●
In one instance, an Emerald Divide account posted a graphic that matched a post made by the
official mainstream social media account of Iranian state-run news outlet IRNA.
Contextual evidence:
●
Emerald Divide supports narratives that seek to exacerbate ideological divisions within Israeli
society on specific social and political issues and undermine the Israeli government. Notably,
these narratives support Iran’s top priorities, which include projecting Iran’s regional power and
influence while curtailing Western and Israeli presence in the region, using both proxy warfare
and its “soft war” power to oppose the US and Israel.
●
Emerald Divide amplifies these narratives by posting AI-generated images expressing negative
sentiment toward Prime Minister Netanyahu and other Israeli political leaders.
Overlap with previous reporting:
●
On February 7, 2024, Microsoft attributed three Emerald Divide social media accounts to
influence threat actor Storm-1364, which Microsoft also assessed as a likely Iranian state threat
actor.
●
The Shin Bet attributed specific social media accounts discussed in this report to Iranian security
agencies targeting Israeli citizens.
Outlook
This influence campaign demonstrates a trend of Emerald Divide shifting its operations to primarily
Telegram, likely in an attempt to avoid asset seizures or takedowns. Common use of generative AI
throughout this campaign very likely indicates that advanced influence threat actors have adopted and
implemented AI as a routine capability, which will likely continue to improve over time as the technology
advances and as the threat actors apply lessons learned through repeated operational employment.
Emerald Divide’s limited success in purportedly influencing and persuading its target audience to
engage in specific and observable physical actions will likely embolden threat actors to continue using
influence operations to achieve specific objectives, especially in complex operational environments in
24
TA-2024-0508
Recorded Future® | www.recordedfuture.com
THREAT ANALYSIS
which the threat actors seek to obfuscate attribution and execute offensive actions below the threshold
of armed conflict.
As the Israel-Hamas conflict continues, Emerald Divide will also likely continue taking advantage of
dynamic events related to Israel’s domestic political landscape to exploit corresponding psychological
vulnerabilities. Based on the campaign’s historically observed activity, it is also likely that the campaign
will change its influence objectives again based on emerging targets of opportunity that trigger
competing reactions from various political factions within Israel’s government and its broader political
system, such as Israel’s next legislative election, which is scheduled to take place in October 2026.
25
TA-2024-0508
Recorded Future® | www.recordedfuture.com
THREAT ANALYSIS
Appendix A: IO Diamond Models
Operation One Influence Objective: Increase Social Conflict Between Israel’s
“Ultra-Orthodox” Religious Groups and Israel’s LGBTQ+ Community
26
TA-2024-0508
Recorded Future® | www.recordedfuture.com
THREAT ANALYSIS
Operation Two Influence Objective: Incite Conflict by Pivoting Individuals on
the Left and Right Sides of Israel’s Political Spectrum Against Each Other
27
TA-2024-0508
Recorded Future® | www.recordedfuture.com
THREAT ANALYSIS
Operation Three Influence Objective: Sow Discontent Among Israeli Citizens
Regarding the Israeli Government’s Response to Hamas’s Attacks
28
TA-2024-0508
Recorded Future® | www.recordedfuture.com
THREAT ANALYSIS
About Insikt Group®
Recorded Future’s Insikt Group, the company’s threat research division, comprises
analysts and security researchers with deep government, law enforcement, military, and
intelligence agency experience. Their mission is to produce intelligence that reduces risk
for clients, enables tangible outcomes, and prevents business disruption.
About Recorded Future®
Recorded Future is the world’s largest threat intelligence company. Recorded Future’s
Intelligence Cloud provides end-to-end intelligence across adversaries, infrastructure,
and targets. Indexing the internet across the open web, dark web, and technical
sources, Recorded Future provides real-time visibility into an expanding attack surface
and threat landscape, empowering clients to act with speed and confidence to reduce
risk and securely drive business forward. Headquartered in Boston with offices and
employees around the world, Recorded Future works with over 1,700 businesses and
government organizations across more than 75 countries to provide real-time, unbiased,
and actionable intelligence.
Learn more at recordedfuture.com
29
TA-2024-0508
Recorded Future® | www.recordedfuture.com
