2 
2. 
The MSS and its state security departments sought to obtain information 
on political, economic and security policies that might affect the PRC, along with military, 
scientific and technical information of value to the PRC.  Among other things, the MSS and its 
state security departments focused on surreptitiously identifying and influencing the foreign 
policy of other countries, including the United States.  In many instances, the MSS focused 
collection and subsequent related malign influence efforts on politicians that the PRC perceived 
as being critical of PRC government policies.  The MSS also sought to target intellectual 
property that could be utilized to the economic advantage of PRC-based commercial firms. 
3. 
One of the ways the MSS collected information was through computer 
intrusion activity, of which individuals and entities in the United States were a principal target.   
4. 
The Hubei State Security Department (“HSSD”) was the provincial 
foreign intelligence arm of the MSS in Hubei Province, PRC.  The HSSD was located on Bayi 
Road, Wuchang District, in Wuhan, a city in Hubei Province.   
5. 
In approximately 2010, the HSSD created a front company, Wuhan 
Xiaoruizhi Science & Technology Co., Ltd. (武汉晓睿智科技有限责任公司) (“Wuhan XRZ”), 
to carry out its computer intrusion activities.  A PRC government business license issued by the 
PRC Administration for Market Regulation described Wuhan XRZ as a company involved with 
research and experimental development, technology development, technology consultation and 
technology transfer. 
II. 
The Defendants 
6. 
The defendant NI GAOBIN (倪高彬) is a 38-year-old citizen of the PRC.  
NI conducted hacking activities in support of the MSS’s foreign intelligence and economic 
3 
espionage objectives, as well as targeting Hong Kong democracy activists and members of the 
Uyghur minority group.  A photograph of NI is depicted below: 
 
7. 
The defendant WENG MING (翁明) is a 37-year-old citizen of the PRC.  
WENG conducted hacking activities in support of the MSS’s foreign intelligence and economic 
espionage objectives.  A photograph of WENG is depicted below: 
 
8. 
The defendant CHENG FENG (程锋) is a 34-year-old citizen of the PRC.  
CHENG engaged in hacking activities as a contractor for HSSD’s front company, Wuhan XRZ, 
in support of the MSS’s foreign intelligence and economic espionage objectives.  A photograph 
of CHENG is depicted below: 
 
4 
9. 
The defendant PENG YAOWEN (彭耀文) is a 38-year-old citizen of the 
PRC.  PENG engaged in hacking activities as a contractor for HSSD’s front company, Wuhan 
XRZ, in support of the MSS’s foreign intelligence and economic espionage objectives.  A 
photograph of PENG is depicted below: 
 
 
10. 
The defendant SUN XIAOHUI (孙小辉) is a 38-year-old citizen of the 
PRC.  SUN was the owner of Wuhan Liuhe Tiangong Science & Technology Co., Ltd. (“Wuhan 
Liuhe”), a private company, and engaged in hacking activities in support of the MSS’s foreign 
intelligence and economic espionage objectives.  A photograph of SUN is depicted below:  
 
 
11. 
The defendant XIONG WANG (熊旺) is a 34-year-old citizen of the PRC.  
XIONG engaged in hacking activities as a contractor for HSSD’s front company, Wuhan XRZ, 
in support of the MSS’s foreign intelligence and economic espionage objectives.  A photograph 
of XIONG is depicted below. 
6 
information technology (“IT”), telecommunications, manufacturing and trade, finance, 
consulting, legal and research industries. 
14. 
The defendants NI GAOBIN, WENG MING, CHENG FENG, PENG 
YAOWEN, SUN XIAOHUI, XIONG WANG and ZHAO GUANGZONG, together with dozens 
of identified MSS intelligence officers, contractor hackers and support personnel, were part of a 
group of malicious cyber actors operating on behalf of the HSSD.  The group was known by 
cybersecurity researchers as “Advanced Persistent Threat 31” or “APT 31,” “Zirconium,” 
“Violet Typhoon,” “Judgment Panda” and “Altaire.” 
15. 
Since at least 2010, the defendants NI GAOBIN, WENG MING, CHENG 
FENG, PENG YAOWEN, SUN XIAOHUI, XIONG WANG and ZHAO GUANGZONG, and 
others known and unknown (the “Conspirators”), engaged in computer network intrusion activity 
on behalf of the HSSD targeting numerous U.S. government officials, various U.S. economic and 
defense industries and a variety of private industry officials, foreign democracy activists, 
academics and parliamentarians in response to geopolitical events affecting the PRC.  These 
computer network intrusion activities resulted in the confirmed and potential compromise of 
work and personal email accounts, cloud storage accounts and telephone call records belonging 
to millions of Americans, including at least some information that could be released in support of 
malign influence targeting democratic processes and institutions, and economic plans, 
intellectual property, and trade secrets belonging to American businesses, and contributed to the 
estimated billions of dollars lost every year as a result of the PRC’s state-sponsored apparatus to 
transfer U.S. technology to the PRC. 
7 
B. 
Targeting of U.S. and Other Government and Political Officials 
16. 
Since at least 2015, the Conspirators sent thousands of malicious tracking 
email messages to the personal and professional email accounts of government and political 
officials in the U.S. and elsewhere, including targets’ family members and contacts.  The 
malicious email messages generally purported to be from prominent American journalists, 
contained email subject headers purporting to contain legitimate news articles, and the body of 
the messages purported to include excerpts from news articles from news outlets, such as CNN 
and Vox.  However, the messages contained an embedded hyperlink that served as a tracking 
link.  If the recipient activated the tracking link by opening the email, information about the 
recipient, including the recipient’s location, IP addresses, network schematics and specific 
devices used to access the pertinent email accounts, was transmitted to a server controlled by the 
Conspirators.  The Conspirators used this method to enable more direct and sophisticated 
targeting of recipients’ home routers and other electronic devices, including those of high-
ranking U.S. government officials and politicians and election campaign staff from both major 
U.S. political parties. 
17. 
Between approximately June and September 2018, the Conspirators sent 
more than 10,000 malicious email messages to professional and personal email addresses 
belonging to high-ranking U.S. government officials and their advisors, including officials 
involved in international policy and foreign trade issues.  The targets included individuals at the 
White House; the Departments of Justice, Commerce, Treasury and State; members of Congress, 
including both Democratic and Republican U.S. Senators from more than ten states; government 
officials in the Eastern District of New York; and the spouses of a high-ranking Department of 
Justice official, high-ranking White House officials and multiple United States Senators.  The 
8 
targets also included political strategists and commentators and political and special interest 
advocates, as well as U.S. government contractors, including cleared defense contractors, to 
obtain U.S. government information.   
18. 
In or about May 2020, the Conspirators began targeting email accounts 
belonging to several senior campaign staff members for a presidential campaign.  In or about 
November 2020, the Conspirators sent emails containing tracking links to targets associated with 
additional political campaigns, including a retired senior U.S. government national security 
official.   
19. 
In or about March 2022, the Conspirators sent emails containing tracking 
links to various government officials in the U.S. Senate, the State Department and the 
Departments of Commerce, Labor and Transportation. 
20. 
In addition to targeting U.S. government and political officials, the 
Conspirators also targeted other government officials around the world who expressed criticism 
of the PRC government.  For example, in or about 2021, the Conspirators targeted the email 
accounts of various government individuals from across the world who were part of the Inter-
Parliamentary Alliance on China (“IPAC”), a group founded in 2020 on the anniversary of the 
1989 Tiananmen Square protests whose stated purpose was to counter the threats posed by the 
Chinese Communist Party to the international order and democratic principles.  In or about 
January 2021, the Conspirators registered and used ten Conspirator-created accounts on an 
identified mass email and mail merge system to send more than 1,000 emails to more than 400 
unique accounts of individuals associated with IPAC.  Similar to the mailing tools utilized to 
target U.S. officials and politicians, the mailing tool used in this campaign allowed the 
Conspirators to track delivery metrics on emails and receive data from victims that opened the 
9 
emails, including the victims’ IP addresses, browser types, and operating systems.  The targets 
included every European Union member of IPAC, and 43 United Kingdom parliamentary 
accounts, most of whom were members of IPAC or had been outspoken on topics relating to the 
PRC government. 
C. 
Targeting of U.S. Economic and Defense Industries 
21. 
Between at least 2010 and November 2023, the Conspirators used 
sophisticated cyber means to hack and attempt to hack into protected computers, that is, 
computers used in and affecting interstate and foreign commerce and communications, to steal 
non-public information.   
22. 
To achieve these intrusions, the Conspirators used sophisticated types of 
custom malware such as RAWDOOR, Trochilus, EvilOSX, DropDoor/DropCat and others.  This 
malware used legitimate executable files to side-load malicious DLL (dynamic link library) files, 
which decrypted and executed payloads, or implants, on the victim machines.  The implants 
established secure connections with accounts or servers controlled by the Conspirators in order 
to receive and execute commands on the victim machines.  The Conspirators later began using 
against victim networks a cracked/pirated version of a commercial cybersecurity penetration 
testing tool called Cobalt Strike Beacon. 
23. 
One such example was the targeting of a U.S. cleared defense contractor 
with offices in Long Island, New York and elsewhere (the “Defense Contractor”).  Between 
approximately October 2016 and December 2016, the Conspirators used a zero-day privilege 
escalation exploit—a vulnerability in a computer system that hackers become aware of prior to 
efforts by a vendor or user of the computer system to patch or fix the vulnerability—to gain 
access to the Defense Contractor.  Using the zero-day privilege escalation exploit, the 
10 
Conspirators first obtained administrator access to a subsidiary’s network before ultimately 
pivoting into the Defense Contractor’s core corporate network.  The Conspirators used a SQL 
injection, in which they entered malicious code into a web form input box to gain access to 
information that was not intended to be displayed, to create an account on the subsidiary’s 
network with the username “testdew23.”   The Conspirators used malicious software to grant 
administrator privileges to the “testdew23” user account.  Next, the Conspirators uploaded a web 
shell, or a script that enables remote administration of the computer, named “Welcome to 
Chrome,” onto the subsidiary’s web server.  Thereafter, the Conspirators used the web shell to 
upload and execute at least two malicious files on the web server, which were configured to open 
a connection between the victim’s network and computers outside that network that were 
controlled by the Conspirators.  Through this method, the Conspirators successfully gained 
unauthorized access to the Defense Contractor’s network. 
24. 
In another example, between approximately 2017 and 2019, the 
Conspirators targeted and gained access to the networks of seven IT managed service providers, 
including providers based in New York, California, Massachusetts, Colorado, Idaho and 
overseas.  IT managed service providers were third-party organizations that customers contracted 
to manage one or more specialized technological needs, such as network management and 
security.  Customers of managed service providers included corporations, non-government 
organizations and small- and medium-sized businesses.  By hacking these networks, the 
Conspirators gained access to the data belonging to customers of the breached managed service 
providers.  In one such computer intrusion, in approximately May 2017, the Conspirators 
accessed a backup server belonging to a California-based managed service provider (“California 
MSP”) and, from there, accessed servers belonging to the California MSP’s customers.  Using 
11 
malicious files hidden in network security programs, the Conspirators gained access to at least 35 
devices on the California MSP’s network and exploited the California MSP’s access to customer 
networks to spread malware to at least 15 servers on as many as seven remote customer 
networks.  The affected California MSP customers included a financial company, a nuclear 
power engineering company, an enterprise-resources planning company and three additional IT 
managed service providers. 
25. 
Between at least 2010 and November 2023, the Conspirators also gained 
access to the following companies, research institutions and other organizations in the following 
industries, among others: 
a. 
the defense industry, including a cleared defense contractor based 
in Oklahoma that designed and manufactured military flight simulators for the U.S. Army, Air 
Force and Navy; a cleared aerospace and defense contractor based in Tennessee; an Alabama-
based research corporation in the aerospace and defense industries; and a Maryland-based 
professional support services company that serviced the Department of Defense and other 
government agencies; 
b. 
the IT industry, including a leading American manufacturer of 
software and computer services based in California; a leading global provider of wireless 
technology based in Illinois; a technology company based in New York; a software company 
servicing the industrial controls industry based in California; an IT consulting company based in 
California; an IT services and spatial processing company based in Colorado; a multi-factor 
authentication company; an American trade association 
 
; and multiple information technology training and support companies; 
12 
c. 
the telecommunications industry, including a leading provider of 
5G network equipment in the United States; an IT solutions and 5G integration service company 
based in Idaho; a telecommunications company based in Illinois; and a voice technology 
company headquartered in California; 
d. 
the manufacturing and trade industry, including a prominent trade 
organization with offices in New York and elsewhere; a manufacturing association based in 
Washington, D.C.; a steel company based in 
; an apparel company based in New 
York; an engineering company based in California; and an energy company based in Texas; 
e. 
the finance and consulting industry, including a finance company 
headquartered in New York; an American multi-national management consulting company with 
offices in Washington, D.C. and elsewhere; a financial ratings company based in New York; an 
advertising agency based in New York; and a consulting company based in Virginia; 
f. 
the legal industry, including multiple global law firms based in 
New York and throughout the United States, and a law firm software provider; and  
g. 
the research industry, including a machine learning laboratory 
based in Virginia; a university based in California; multiple research hospitals and institutes 
located in New York and Massachusetts; and an international non-profit organization 
headquartered in Washington, D.C. 
D. 
Hacking in Response to Geopolitical Events Affecting the PRC 
26. 
Since at least 2017, the Conspirators engaged in computer network 
intrusion activity in response to geopolitical events affecting the PRC, including economic 
tensions between the U.S. and the PRC, the Hong Kong democracy movement and a U.S. 
government statement regarding the PRC’s maritime claims in the South China Sea. 
13 
i. 
Hacking in Response to U.S.-PRC Economic Tensions 
27. 
On or about March 8, 2018, amid ongoing economic tensions between the 
U.S. and the PRC over import duties on products from the PRC, the United States implemented a 
new tariff on imported steel.  In response, the PRC Ministry of Commerce publicly stated that 
the PRC would “immediately fight back with a major response.”  Within hours of that 
announcement, on or about March 9, 2018, the Conspirators registered a malicious domain 
impersonating the legitimate domain of one of the largest steel producers in the United States 
(the “American Steel Company”).  On or about March 17, 2018, the Conspirators registered 
malicious domains impersonating the legitimate domain of an international steel trade forum (the 
“International Steel Trade Forum”).  These malicious domains allowed the Conspirators to 
communicate with malware they installed on the network of the American Steel Company to 
access and surveil the victim.  
ii. 
Hacking in Response to the Hong Kong Democracy Movement 
28. 
In February 2018, U.S. lawmakers nominated for the Nobel Peace Prize 
several activists who spearheaded Hong Kong’s Umbrella Movement, a 2014 movement in 
which protestors rallied for political reforms in Hong Kong while using umbrellas to shield 
themselves from pepper spray that police used to disperse the rallies.  The Nobel Peace Prize was 
to be decided by the Norwegian Nobel Committee, a five-member committee appointed by the 
Norwegian Parliament.  In response to the nomination, the Conspirators targeted the Norwegian 
government and a Norwegian multinational managed service provider (the “Norwegian MSP”) 
using DropDoor/DropCat malware.  The DropDoor/DropCat malware forced the compromised 
computer to download and process commands that the Conspirators stored in an account on an 
14 
online file storage platform and encrypted and uploaded stolen data from the compromised 
network to that same account. 
29. 
Throughout 2019, in response to continued protests in Hong Kong, the 
Conspirators conducted widescale hacking activities targeting Hong Kong pro-democracy 
activists located in the United States and abroad, as well as legislators, activists and journalists 
associated with the Hong Kong democracy movement.  In or about October 2019, the 
Conspirators created email accounts impersonating prominent PRC dissident activists and used 
these imitation email accounts to target other critics of the PRC government with malicious 
emails.  The emails contained a link that, if accessed, resulted in DropDoor/DropCat malware 
being installed on the victims’ machines.  Through this technique, the Conspirators were able to 
successfully gain information about PRC government critics. 
30. 
In or about October 2019, the Conspirators targeted Hong Kong legislators 
with malicious emails.  The emails contained a link to a file named “FYI.zip,” and the “zipped” 
archive contained documents that appeared to relate to the Hong Kong protests, including 
documents titled “Hong-Kong-Report.pdf” and “Hong-Kong-Democratic-Crisis-Brief.pdf.”  The 
zip file contained a “shortcut” file designed to download and execute a malicious file—the 
DropDoor/DropCat malware—that was hosted on an online file storage platform.  Also in or 
about October 2019, the Conspirators used the same technique to successfully target at least 
seven Hong Kong democracy activists. 
iii. 
Hacking in Response to a U.S. Statement Regarding the PRC’s  
Maritime Claims in the South China Sea 
 
31. 
On or about July 13, 2020, the United States Secretary of State 
characterized the PRC’s territorial claims in the South China Sea as “completely unlawful.”  The 
following day, the U.S. Assistant Secretary of State for East Asian and Pacific Affairs added that 
15 
the PRC sought to “replace international law with rule by threats and coercion.”  The PRC 
Embassy in Washington, D.C. responded in a statement, asserting that the U.S. Assistant 
Secretary of State’s “accusation is completely unjustified.” 
32. 
In or about July 2020, in response to the State Department’s allegations 
concerning the South China Sea, the Conspirators used an Estonian-based email account to send 
malicious emails to a variety of victims in the United States and Asia, including the U.S. Naval 
Academy, the U.S. Naval War College’s China Maritime Studies Institute and an American think 
tank focused on U.S. national security issues, including in the Asia-Pacific region.   
33. 
The emails were designed to prompt the recipients to download and 
execute a file named “macfee” from a shared software repository.  The executable file was a 
malware “dropper” that, if installed, would launch a legitimate McAfee anti-virus application 
while simultaneously installing and running the DropDoor/DropCat malware implant.  The 
DropDoor/DropCat malware implant was configured with settings previously associated with the 
October 2019 intrusion activity involving the Hong Kong legislators and democracy activists. 
COUNT ONE 
(Conspiracy to Commit Computer Intrusions) 
 
34. 
The allegations contained in paragraphs one through 33 of this Indictment 
are repeated and realleged as if fully set forth herein. 
35. 
In or about and between December 2014 and January 2024, both dates 
being approximate and inclusive, within the Eastern District of New York and elsewhere, the 
defendants NI GAOBIN (倪高彬), WENG MING (翁明), CHENG FENG (程锋), PENG 
YAOWEN (彭耀文), SUN XIAOHUI (孙小辉), XIONG WANG (熊旺) and ZHAO 
GUANGZONG (赵光宗), together with others, did knowingly and willfully conspire to:  
16 
(a) intentionally access without authorization one or more computers and thereby to obtain 
information from one or more protected computers, contrary to Title 18, United States Code, 
Sections 1030(a)(2)(C), 1030(c)(2)(A) and 1030(c)(2)(B); (b) knowingly cause the transmission 
of a program, information, code and command, and as a result of such conduct, intentionally 
cause damage without authorization to a protected computer, contrary to Title 18, United States 
Code, Sections 1030(a)(5)(A) and 1030(c)(4)(B); and (c) intentionally access a protected 
computer without authorization and as a result of such conduct recklessly cause damage, 
contrary to Title 18, United States Code, Sections 1030(a)(5)(B) and 1030(c)(4)(A). 
36. 
In furtherance of the conspiracy, and to effect its objects, the defendants 
NI GAOBIN (倪高彬), WENG MING (翁明), CHENG FENG (程锋), PENG YAOWEN  
(彭耀文), SUN XIAOHUI (孙小辉), XIONG WANG (熊旺) and ZHAO GUANGZONG  
(赵光宗), together with others, did commit and cause the commission of the following: 
OVERT ACTS 
a. 
In or about December 2014, PENG YAOWEN and SUN 
XIAOHUI maintained an encrypted target list containing the names of 12 U.S. entities against 
whom PENG and SUN conducted research and reconnaissance throughout 2014 and 2015 and 
against whom the Conspirators executed intrusion campaigns between 2014 and at least 2018. 
b. 
In or about 2015, WENG MING sent via email to SUN XIAOHUI 
a malware variant called Gh0stRAT that the Conspirators used in approximately 2015. 
c. 
In or about February 2015, PENG YAOWEN and SUN XIAOHUI 
used a web shell to maintain unauthorized network access to a server on a private U.S. 
university’s network.   
17 
d. 
In or about April 2015, PENG YAOWEN and SUN XIAOHUI 
used a web shell to maintain unauthorized network access to a server on a U.S. engineering 
company’s network.  
e. 
In or about and between 2015 and 2016, CHENG FENG—while 
employed by Wuhan XRZ and co-located with an identified MSS officer—conducted 
development work on a malware implant called RAWDOOR, which the Conspirators used 
regularly from approximately 2015 to 2017 to target victim companies. 
f. 
In or about 2015, CHENG FENG worked to develop a key-logger 
tool, which permitted the Conspirators to track the activity of the user of a targeted computer by 
recording the user’s keystrokes.   
g. 
In or about 2015, CHENG FENG managed credentials used to 
register an online account containing unique files that were part of the Conspirators’ use of the 
RAWDOOR malware. 
h. 
In or about 2015, CHENG FENG managed a domain name for a 
command-and-control server that accessed at least 59 unique victim computers, many of which 
the Conspirators targeted with the RAWDOOR malware, including a telecommunications 
company that was a leading provider of 5G network equipment in the United States, an 
Alabama-based research corporation in the aerospace and defense industries and a Maryland-
based professional support services company that serviced the Department of Defense and other 
government agencies.  
i. 
In or about 2015, CHENG FENG controlled another domain name 
that spoofed the name of a major U.S. smartphone and technology manufacturer. 
18 
j. 
In or about and between October 2016 and December 2016, the 
Conspirators conducted intrusion activity against the Defense Contractor. 
k. 
In or about and between October 2017 and 2020, NI GAOBIN 
conducted extensive computer hacking-related research.  
l. 
In or about and between 2017 and 2018, NI GAOBIN exchanged 
test emails containing tracking links and malware links with multiple alternate email addresses 
controlled by NI.  
m. 
In or about and between 2017 and 2018, NI GAOBIN accessed 
domain registrar accounts and/or virtual private server (“VPS”) accounts used to host command-
and-control domains used by the Conspirators to conduct intrusion activities. 
n. 
In or about 2018, CHENG FENG, XIONG WANG and ZHAO 
GUANGZONG possessed and tested a malware variant called EvilOSX that targeted Apple 
computers.  CHENG, XIONG and ZHAO created a malicious web page on a server controlled 
by the Conspirators that resembled a legitimate download page for the common software product 
Adobe Flash; however, the “Install now” button was configured to direct the user to a malicious 
website.  As a result, an unsuspecting victim trying to download Adobe Flash instead would 
download the EvilOSX malware, which, once installed by a victim, was programmed to 
communicate with a command-and-control domain hosted at a server leased by the Conspirators. 
o. 
In or about 2018, WENG MING and SUN XIAOHUI operated the 
infrastructure used in an intrusion into a U.S. 
 company 
known for its public opinion polls. 
19 
p. 
In or about 2018, the Conspirators used tracking link emails to 
target four of the 12 entities on the target list maintained by PENG YAOWEN and SUN 
XIAOHUI in December 2014. 
q. 
On or about March 9, 2018, the Conspirators registered a domain 
with a Bulgarian domain registrar impersonating the legitimate domain of the American Steel 
Company. 
r. 
On or about March 17, 2018, the Conspirators registered with the 
same Bulgarian domain registrar a second malicious domain which impersonated the legitimate 
domain of the International Steel Trade Forum. 
s. 
In or about and between March 2018 and May 2018, the 
Conspirators installed and maintained malware, including a malware implant known as 
Trochilus, on the network of the American Steel Company, and used a malicious domain 
purchased through an Australian VPS company and hosted on a server in Los Angeles, 
California as a command-and-control server through which the Conspirators could direct 
infected computers and receive stolen data from the American Steel Company. 
t. 
On or about April 26, 2018, the Conspirators temporarily 
reconfigured the malicious domains associated with the malware for the American Steel 
Company in response to mitigation steps taken by the victim.  As a result of the reconfiguration, 
the malware ceased communications with the Conspirators’ command-and-control server to 
prevent the victim from discovering a second piece of recovery malware that the Conspirators 
had installed on the American Steel Company’s network as a backup to the Trochilus malware 
implant.  
20 
u. 
In or about and between April 2018 and September 2018, the 
Conspirators deployed the DropDoor/DropCat malware into the Norwegian MSP’s network.  
The malware beaconed to an account at an online file storage platform that permitted the 
Conspirators to control the malware and to receive data that was exfiltrated from the Norwegian 
MSP.  The Conspirators installed the malware used in the Norwegian MSP intrusion through a 
file named “gup.exe.”  The Conspirators conducted online research on gup.exe in April 2018, 
and then in or about July 2018, began accessing the website of the Nobel Prize Committee, 
including identifying the members who served on the committee.  
v. 
In or about and between June and September 2018, the 
Conspirators conducted an intrusion into the networks of a manufacturing advocacy group (the 
“Manufacturing Advocacy Group”), during which the Conspirators targeted three of the group’s 
executives and a board member. 
w. 
In or about and between June 2018 and June 2019, the 
Conspirators installed DropDoor/DropCat malware on the Manufacturing Advocacy Group’s 
networks. 
x. 
On or about and between June 27, 2018 and June 29, 2018, the 
Conspirators sent malicious email messages to various State Department employees that 
purported to originate from the email address “no_reply@insimagecloud.com,” used subject 
lines such as “Why is the United States not at the 2018 World Cup?,” and purported to contain 
excerpts from news articles.  The emails had hyperlinks within the purported news excerpts that 
contained tracking links that beaconed the victims’ data to the Conspirators. 
y. 
In or about and between June and July 2018, the Conspirators sent 
malicious email messages to U.S. government officials, including government officials in the 
21 
Eastern District of New York, from at least three different domains, including the domains 
@usnews-today.com, @insimagecloud.com and @timelynews.us. 
z. 
In or about and between August and September 2018, the 
Conspirators sent malicious email messages to U.S. government officials from several domains 
including @dailytrainnews.com, @europeanew.com, @nynewsweek.com and 
@nytrainnews.com.  
aa. 
In or about and between August and September 2018, the 
Conspirators sent tracking link emails to personal email accounts of various State Department 
employees. 
bb. 
In or about and between August and September 2018, the 
Conspirators sent emails to the spouses of certain U.S. government officials, including the 
spouses of the Department of Justice leadership, White House officials and multiple United 
States Senators, seeking to obtain the targets’ IP addresses and web browser versions and to gain 
unauthorized access to the targets’ home routers and other electronic devices.  
cc. 
In or about 2019, NI GAOBIN and ZHAO GUANGZONG sent 
emails with links to files containing malware to Hong Kong legislators and democracy activists. 
dd. 
In or about July 2020, NI GAOBIN and ZHAO GUANGZONG 
used an Estonian-based email account to send emails with links to files containing malware to 
victims in the United States and Asia, including the U.S. Naval Academy, the U.S. Naval War 
College’s China Maritime Studies Institute and a U.S. think tank focused on U.S. national 
security issues, including in the Asia-Pacific region. 
ee. 
In or about August 2020, NI GAOBIN and ZHAO GUANGZONG 
used an Estonian-based email account to target Hong Kong democracy activists with malware 
22 
implants.  The emails contained a shortcut designed to download and execute a file from an 
online hosting platform that hosted four .pdf files that purported to relate to COVID-19 vaccines.  
Each of these .pdf files were executable “Windows Installer” files containing DropDoor/DropCat 
malware implants configured to receive commands from an account at an online file sharing 
platform that was controlled by NI and ZHAO. 
ff. 
In or about May 2020, the Conspirators targeted email accounts 
belonging to senior campaign staff members for a presidential campaign.  The Conspirators sent 
tracking link emails from an email account that spoofed the name of a prominent American 
journalist.  The subject lines of the emails referred to a news article, and the body of the emails 
contained a copy of the news article as well as a hidden tracking link hosted at the domain 
newsinslowusa.com, controlled by the Conspirators.   
gg. 
In or about November 2020, the Conspirators sent emails 
containing tracking links, purporting to be from a journalist with a major broadcast network and 
purporting to attach an election-related news article, to targets associated with other political 
campaigns, including a former senior U.S. government national security official. 
hh. 
In or about and between 2020 and 2021, WENG MING worked 
with a malware variant based on Cobalt Strike Beacon software that the Conspirators used in 
approximately 2020 and 2021.  
ii. 
In or about March 2022, the Conspirators sent emails containing 
tracking links to the personal email accounts of various government officials in the U.S. Senate 
and the Departments of Commerce, Labor, State and Transportation.  These emails purported to 
be from a producer of another major broadcast network. 
23 
jj. 
In or about June 2022, the Conspirators had compromised and 
placed under email surveillance three personal accounts belonging to a former U.S. Cabinet 
official. 
kk. 
In or about and between June 2022 and February 2023, the 
Conspirators had compromised and placed under email surveillance a personal account 
belonging to a current United States Ambassador to a Southeast Asian country. 
(Title 18, United States Code, Sections 371 and 3551 et seq.) 
COUNT TWO 
(Wire Fraud Conspiracy) 
 
37. 
The allegations contained in paragraphs one through 33 and 36 of this 
Indictment are repeated and realleged as if fully set forth herein. 
38. 
In and about and between December 2014 and January 2024, both dates 
being approximate and inclusive, within the Eastern District of New York and elsewhere, the 
defendants NI GAOBIN (倪高彬), WENG MING (翁明), CHENG FENG (程锋), PENG 
YAOWEN (彭耀文), SUN XIAOHUI (孙小辉), XIONG WANG (熊旺) and ZHAO 
GUANGZONG (赵光宗), together with others, did knowingly and intentionally conspire to 
devise a scheme and artifice to defraud, and to obtain money and property by means of 
materially false and fraudulent pretenses, representations and promises, and for the purpose of 
executing such scheme and artifice, to transmit or cause to be transmitted by means of wire 
communication in interstate and foreign commerce, writings, signs, signals, pictures and sounds, 
to wit: communications with victim computers to create and maintain unauthorized access to  
 
 
24 
those computers in order to obtain proprietary and valuable information from them, contrary to 
Title 18, United States Code, Section 1343. 
(Title 18, United States Code, Sections 1349 and 3551 et seq.) 
CRIMINAL FORFEITURE ALLEGATION 
AS TO COUNT ONE 
39.
The United States hereby gives notice to the defendants NI GAOBIN
(倪高彬), WENG MING (翁明), CHENG FENG (程锋), PENG YAOWEN (彭耀文), SUN 
XIAOHUI (孙小辉), XIONG WANG (熊旺) and ZHAO GUANGZONG (赵光宗), that, upon 
their conviction of the offense charged in Count One, the government will seek forfeiture in 
accordance with Title 18, United States Code, Sections 982(a)(2) and 1030(i)(1), which require 
any person convicted of such offense to forfeit any property constituting, or derived from, 
proceeds obtained directly or indirectly as a result of such offense, and such person’s interest in 
any personal property that was used or intended to be used to commit or to facilitate such 
offense.   
40.
If any of the above-described forfeitable property, as a result of any act or
omission of the defendants: 
a.
cannot be located upon the exercise of due diligence;
b.
has been transferred or sold to, or deposited with, a third party;
c.
has been placed beyond the jurisdiction of the court;
d.
has been substantially diminished in value; or
e.
has been commingled with other property which cannot be divided
without difficulty; 
25 
it is the intent of the United States, pursuant to Title 21, United States Code, Section 853(p), as 
incorporated by Title 18, United States Code, Sections 982(b)(1) and 1030(i)(2), to seek 
forfeiture of any other property of the defendants up to the value of the forfeitable property 
described in this forfeiture allegation. 
(Title 18, United States Code, Sections 982(a)(2), 982(b)(1), 1030(i)(1) and 
1030(i)(2); Title 21, United States Code, Section 853(p)) 
CRIMINAL FORFEITURE ALLEGATION 
AS TO COUNT TWO 
41.
The United States hereby gives notice to the defendants NI GAOBIN
(倪高彬), WENG MING (翁明), CHENG FENG (程锋), PENG YAOWEN (彭耀文), SUN 
XIAOHUI (孙小辉), XIONG WANG (熊旺) and ZHAO GUANGZONG (赵光宗), that, upon 
their conviction of the offense charged in Count Two, the government will seek forfeiture in 
accordance with Title 18, United States Code, Sections 981(a)(1)(C) and Title 28, United States 
Code, Section 2461(c), which require any person convicted of such offense to forfeit any 
property, real or personal, constituting, or derived from, proceeds obtained directly or indirectly 
as a result of such offense. 
42.
If any of the above-described forfeitable property, as a result of any act or
omission of the defendants: 
a.
cannot be located upon the exercise of due diligence;
b.
has been transferred or sold to, or deposited with, a third party;
c.
has been placed beyond the jurisdiction of the court;
d.
has been substantially diminished in value; or
e.
has been commingled with other property which cannot be divided 
without difficulty; 
