1/16
intrusiontruth.wordpress.com
/2023/07/04/wuhan-xiaoruizhi-class-of-19/
Wuhan Xiaoruizhi Class of ‘19
intrusiontruth ⋮ ⋮ 7/4/2023
Welcome back Intrusion Truth readers, it’s been a little while. We hope you’ve spent the time reflecting on
our findings from our previous set of articles on suspicious happenings in and around Wuhan. We don’t
know about you, but even after six articles we felt we had some unfinished business with Wuhan
Xiaoruizhi and friends. So, we put together the remaining information we had to give you a few more
interesting snippets on APT31’s operational infrastructure. 
For our first annex, we will tackle a lead that was buried in the information leaked by our disaffected
Xiaoruizhi insider, of articles 4 and 5. That employees of Xiaoruizhi (AKA APT31 actors) had moved to
new companies in 2020. 
We set out to investigate these claims and see if we could identify some, or all, of the follow-on
destinations of Xiaoruizhi’s class of 2019. And, we are pleased to report, we had a pretty good run. 
Let’s begin with the link that was most straightforward to piece together. A company we named, briefly, in
an earlier article. 
2/16
A touch of in-depth Googling on some of the known Xiaoruizhi actors brought up the below spreadsheet,
which proved to be a goldmine. A spreadsheet of Wuhan City-based individuals in receipt of
employment/training subsidies, which, luckily for us, includes the companies they are employed by.
Poring through this enormous document, we hit the jackpot. Wuhan Shenzhou Human Resources
Development Services.
3/16
As of October 2020, no less than 12 Xiaoruizhi actors who we named previously were now on the books
of Wuhan Shenzhou Human Resources Development Service. 
We again see some familiar characters – graduates of Wuhan Kerui Cracking Academy who left
feedback. Xiong Wang, Li Yilong, Hu Jiaxing (who we did not name but can be found on Kerui’s website)
and Huang Zhen. Moving onto a human resources department can’t have been part of their plan following
their elite hacker training, right? 
Wuhan Shenzhou Human Resources appears to be legitimate, at least in the sense that it’s probably a
real company. It’s got its own website, which is a start, on which it claims to have 500 square meters of
office space and a labor force of 4,000 people. Impressive. 
4/16
WSHRS claims to specialize in labor dispatch, labor outsourcing, subcontracting, and headhunting,
among a number of other noble pursuits. But this provides a clue. The practice of labor dispatch in China
is a process by which employees are hired through an employment services agency and contracted out
to an end user, as opposed to the traditional practice of direct employment. The workers sign contracts
with the employment services agency, rather than the end user of their services. It’s our best guess here
at team I-T that Wuhan Shenzhou Human Resources now acts as labor dispatch for these 12 APT31
employees, and dispatches them out to – well – APT31 or as others may know it; the MSS’ Hubei State
Security Department’s cyberespionage program.
Hubei Chuangxin 
Our next front company came to us via the gift that has given generously throughout this investigation.
Social insurance. Specifically, the social insurance records for Liao Xuliang and Zhou Yin.
5/16
6/16
For our purposes, the most interesting rows of these documents are at the very bottom right. For both
Liao and Zhou the entry marked 201912, i.e. the insurance contribution for December 2019, was
registered to Wuhan Xiaoruizhi. But from 202001, January 2020, onwards, insurance contributions are
registered to Hubei Chuangxin Human Resources Department. 
7/16
Readers, if you’re anything like us, the span of your interest in Chinese Human Resources Service
providers will be limited, so we will spare you too much detail here. But it certainly looks, per the
screenshots below, like Hubei Chuangxin provides labor dispatch services in exactly the same way as
Wuhan Shenzhou, that is, most probably contracting Liao and Zhou back to the MSS (APT, oops – sorry;
typo…..) 
Wuhan Juge/Hubei Win Future 
Moving on. A contributor speaking on condition of anonymity provided us with information that a further
12 former employees of Wuhan Xiaoruizhi Science and Technology were now in receipt of subsidies
under a separate company, Wuhan Juge Enterprise Management:
8/16
Chang Zhen 常振
Zhang Chaofeng 张超锋
Wang Guangcan 万光灿
Tu Meng 涂梦
Yan Wenlong鄢文龙
Gu Chengwu 顾成武
Liu Chencheng 刘晨成
Huang Jin 黄金
Zuo Hequn 左鹤群
Li Haiqing 李海青
Yuan Hongxi 苑红曦
Hou Qiang 侯强
Wuhan Juge appears to have a number of branches across Wuhan City, and has a wildly diverse
business portfolio, which includes (deep breath): Enterprise management, marketing planning, human
resource services, loading and unloading, general cargo warehousing services, storage (excluding
dangerous goods!), communication engineering construction and maintenance, and, most randomly,
sales of automobiles. Seriously impressive range for a company staffed in large part by APT31.
9/16
Digging into the shareholders and management of Wuhan Juge we found something interesting. The
main shareholders are as follows: 
武汉云栖传媒有限公司 Wuhan Yunqi Media Co. Ltd. – main shareholder. 
腾飞 Teng Fei
王道强 Wang Daoqiang  
10/16
All three are also shareholders of another company called Hubei Win Future Enterprise Management
AKA Hubei Win Future Technology.  Similarly, the legal representative, GAN Chunyan, is the same for
both companies, as is the registered phone number, 18995647475: 
So, there is considerable overlap in personnel/management between Juge and Win Future. Hubei Win
Future, according to a congratulatory article about a semi-recent recruitment drive, is a human
outsourcing company of China Telecom. It focusses on the recruitment of technical personnel and
providing technical talent services for China Telecom’s business. 
11/16
According to the article, prospective employees can expect to enjoy all of China’s most significant
holidays as leave. Lucky them. 
We had a source do some digging into Hubei Win Future to see if the overlap with Juge held any
significance for us. And what do you know? We found another Xiaoruizhi employee. Cheng Feng.
Looks like Wuhan Yunqi Media, Teng Fei and Wang Daoqiang own an APT front company empire!
Sensing we were on to something, we continued to look at Hubei Win Future and found a new link. A
phone number registered to Hubei Win Future, 18995647475 was also registered to one Hubei
Junxinda. 
12/16
Furthermore, historic ownership data demonstrated that Hubei Junxinda was once a 25% shareholder of
Hubei Win Future; and Hubei Win Future has been, according to internal reports, Hubei Junxinda’s
principle supplier (although of what, we don’t know – perhaps personnel?): 
Hubei Junxinda looks like a real company; various websites list numerous employees and a number of
the projects that Junxinda has won and in-depth reports such as the one above pore over its finances. It
also has its own website:
13/16
A friend of I-T investigated their premises on our behalf, and found a secure facility at Hubei Junxinda’s
address. Here is some imagery of their entrance hall: 
14/16
15/16
Here, we have to admit, our curiosity was piqued, but we ran out of road. We didn’t find any additional
APT31/Xiaoruizhi employees and were not able to uncover any more on the goings on behind closed
doors at Wuhan Juge, Hubei Win Future, and Hubei Junxinda. Any tips, give us a shout. 
So, referring back to our original list of Xiaoruizhi employees, we’ve collated as many of their follow-on
destinations as we can. 
Chinese Pinyin
Destination after Xiaoruizhi
曹锦芳
Cao Jinfang
 ?
常振
Chang Zhen
Wuhan Juge Enterprise Management 
程鼎
Cheng Ding
?
程锋
Cheng Feng 
Hubei Win Future 
顾成武
Gu Chengwu
Wuhan Juge Enterprise management 
侯强
Hou Qiang
Wuhan Juge Enterprise Management 
胡嘉祥
Hu Jiaxiang
Wuhan Shenzhou Human Resources
黄增辉
Huang Zenghui
Wuhan Shenzhou Human Resources
黄震
Huang Zhen
Wuhan Shenzhou Human Resources
黄振
Huang Zhen
 ?
16/16
李海青
Li Haiqing
Wuhan Juge Enterprise Management 
李家诚
Li Jiacheng
Wuhan Shenzhou Human Resources
李圣胜
Li Shengsheng
Wuhan Shenzhou Human Resources
李义龙
Li Yilong
Wuhan Shenzhou Human Resources
廖绪良
LiaoXuliang
Hubei Chuangxin Human Resources
刘晨成
Liu Chencheng
Wuhan Juge Enterprise Management 
刘宏伟
Liu Hongwei
 Wuhan Shenzhou Human Resources
马欢
Ma Huan
Wuhan Shenzhou Human Resources
唐星昭
Tang Xingzhao
Wuhan Shenzhou Human Resources
涂梦
Tu Meng
Wuhan Juge Enterprise Management
万光灿
Wan Guangcan
Wuhan Juge Enterprise Management 
王意军
Wang Yijun
Wuhan Shenzhou Human Resources
魏耀斌
Wei Yaobin
Wuhan Shenzhou Human Resources
熊旺
Xiong Wang
Wuhan Shenzhou Human Resources
鄢文龙
Yan Wenlong
Wuhan Juge Enterprise Management 
杨鑫
Yang Xin
Wuhan Shenzhou Human Resources
苑红曦
Yuan Hongxi
Wuhan Juge Enterprise Management 
张超锋
Zhang Chaofeng Wuhan Juge Enterprise Management 
张立业
Zhang Liye
Wuhan Shenzhou Human Resources
赵光宗
Zhao Guangzong  ?
周鑫
Zhou Xin
Hubei Chuangxin Human Resources
左鹤群
Zuo Hequn 
Wuhan Juge Enterprise Management 
We still have few gaps, but we are pretty pleased that we have been able to piece together as much as
we have. 
Now, we may never know what happened at Xiaoruizhi at the end of 2019 that caused APT31 to pursue a
mass career change.  Perhaps Xiaoruizhi had simply served its time as an APT front and the powers that
be needed to move APT31 into different administrative structures. 
Any light that our readers can shed would, as always, be gratefully received.
