1
Volt Typhoon II：
A secret Disinformation Campaign targeting U.S.
Congress
and
Taxpayers
conducted
by
U.S.
Government agencies
< Lie to me />
1
National Computer Virus Emergency Response Center
National Engineering Laboratory for Computer Virus Prevention Technology
360 Digital Security Group
July 8, 2024
Executive summary
After the investigation report of Volt Typhoon is released by National Computer Virus
Emergency Response Center of China, manipulated by the U.S. government agencies, all
main-stream medias of U.S. remain silence and no comment, take measures of covering up
evidence and inside-detection. All these actions reveal the fact of U.S. government agencies
hypes up "Volt Typhoon" false narrative for swindling more budgets from the congress. In
response to concerns of the international community and cybersecurity research entities, we
decide to make full disclosure of the "Volt Typhoon" campaign and reveal the truth behind
the scenes. The "Volt Typhoon" is a misinformation campaign targeted U.S. congress and
taxpayers. It was planned and conducted by U.S. intelligence agencies. The object of the
campaign is to preserve U.S. intelligence agencies’ warrantless snooping powers on all
people over the world including Americans via FISA Section 702, so that the U.S. government
agencies could eliminate the foreign competitors and defend the cyber hegemony and
long-term interests of monopolies.
1 Introduction
On April 15, 2024, National Computer Virus Emergency Response Center, National
Engineering Laboratory for Computer Virus Prevention Technology and 360 Digital Security
Group joint released an investigation report1 named "Volt Typhoon ：A Conspiratorial
Swindling Campaign targeting U.S. Congress and Taxpayers conducted by U.S. Intelligence
Community" and reveal the fact that the hacker group so-called "Volt Typhoon" is actually a
ransomware group. Officials from U.S. intelligence and some corrupt politicians joint
manipulated cybersecurity firms to fabricate narratives for exaggerating the cybersecurity
threats from abroad and cheat U.S. congress members and taxpayers, who without expertise,
to pay the sham budget bill. Medias has reached out to the US Embassy in China and
Microsoft for comment on the report, but has no response. It’s no surprised that, all
main-stream media in the U.S. received gag orders from the U.S. Agency for Global Meida
( USAGM ), which is a federal propaganda agency.
The response finally come, on April 18, FBI director Christopher Wary take a speech on
Nashville’s Vanderbilt University. He claimed that the Chinese government-backed hacker
group "Volt Typhoon" had compromised lots of U.S. critical infrastructure entities across the
telecommunications, energy and water and others. The "speech" soon saturated the U.S.
1 https://www.cverc.org.cn/head/zhaiyao/news20240415-FTTF.htm
2
media, which was apparently a successful propaganda operation. Inspired by the speech, we
are able to see the whole picture of the "Volt Typhoon" campaign with lots of co-related
evidence and tradecrafts.
The "Volt Typhoon" is a misinformation campaign which was initiated no later than the
beginning of the year 2023. It was secretly and well planned by NSA, FBI and other agencies
belong to the U.S. intelligence community with multiple federal agencies including DOJ, DOD,
DOE, DHS getting involved, and supported by intelligence and cybersecurity authorities from
other Five Eye countries. It is a typical cognitive warfare operation, but unfortunately, the
targets of the operation were U.S. taxpayers, U.S. congress and ex-president Donald Trump
and other domestic opponents of current U.S. administration. During the operation, U.S.
intelligence abuse their power to manipulate cybersecurity firms and other agencies,
intimidate the American people and congress members with hyping the "China threat
theory" and silence the domestic opponents. The object of the campaign is to preserve the
warrantless snooping powers on all people home and abroad via FISA Section 702 and get
more budget for boosting abilities of offensive cyber operation and surveillance.
"Volt Typhoon" is a real case of "HOUSE of CARDS". Although its main targets are U.S.
congress and American people, it also attempt to defame China, sow discords between China
and other countries, contain China’s development, and rob Chinese companies. Apparently,
the U.S. government intend to divert the antagonistic problems at home with misinformation
operations. In this report, we disclose the evidence and the whole picture of the evil plan
including the details of the operation procedures to the world.
2 Self-contradiction and Covering up
Having a hidden agenda, "Volt Typhoon" is well planed by U.S intelligence. However, it is so
difficult to coordinate all participants and resistance is inevitable, which give us a chance to
have breakthrough in our investigation.
When the first investigation report was released, in order to cover up, U.S. intelligence
manipulated ThreatMon to modify their report related to the ransomware group "Dark
Power", just like a cat shuts its eyes when stealing cream. Besides that, we also found a lot of
contradictions between actions and speeches of U.S. government officials and politicians.
More relationships were found between "Dark Power" and U.S. made "Volt Typhoon"
We have presented the relationship between the ransomware group "Dark Power" and U.S.
made "Volt Typhoon" in the first investigation report based on research in the IoCs from
the Microsoft’s technical analysis report2 and the alert notifications of the FVE3. We quoted
2 https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/security/blog/2023/05/24/volt-typhoon-targets-us-critical-infrastructure-
with-living-off-the-land-techniques/
3 https://media.defense.gov/2023/May/24/2003229517/-1/-1/0/CSA_PRC_State_Sponsored_Cyber_Living_off_
the_Land_v1.1.PDF
3
the report4 "The Rise of Dark Power:
A Close Look at the Group and their Ransomware"
published by ThreatMon (a U.S. based cybersecurity firm) and found the IP addresses related
to the group which were hidden behind the back cover. It is so absurd that, after we
published the first investigation report, ThreatMon modified their report, the new version of
report was expanded to 20 pages, but the IP addresses were eliminated from the back cover
page. However, the directory remains the same. As Shown in Figure 1, 2, 3 and 4.
Figure 1 Previous back cover of TheatMon’s
report
Figure 2 The IoCs hiddden behind the
previous back cover picture
4 https://threatmon.io/the-rise-of-dark-power-a-close-look-at-the-group-and-their-ransomware/
https://threatmon.io/storage/the-rise-of-dark-power-a-close-look-at-the-group-and-their-ransomware.pdf
4
Figure 3 Back cover of new version of the
TheatMon’s report
Figure 4 IP list is missing
We will attached the latest and original version of ThreatMon’s report for the convenience to
compare by readers.
Apparently, U.S. intelligence have a guilty conscience and manipulate ThreatMon to falsify
the report under desperation. Facts speak louder than words, covering up doesn’t work.
Actually, ThreatMon is not alone in tracing the "Dark Power". A report5 named "Shining
Light on Dark Power: Yet Another Ransomware Gang" released by Trellix, which is also a U.S.
cybersecurity firm merged by McAfee and FireEye, also presents the technical details of
ransomware belongs to "Dark Power" group. The conclusion of these two reports are totally
the same, including the hashes of the ransomware samples. As shown in Table 1, Figure 5
and Figure 6.
Table 1 Hashes of ransomware samples belong to "DarkPower"
No.
HASH
1
33c5b4c9a6c24729bb10165e34ae1cd2315cfce5763e65167bd58a57fde9a389
2
11ddebd9b22a3a21be11908feda0ea1e1aa97bc67b2dfefe766fcea467367394
5 https://www.trellix.com/blogs/research/shining-light-on-dark-power/
5
Figure 5 Hashes from report of ThreatMon
Figure 6 Hashes from report of Trellix
We used VirusTotal6 again to analyze the samples and find out that those two samples all
connected with the five IP addresses which were discussed in the previous investigation
report. As shown in Figure 7 and Figure 8, the process can by easily repeated by researchers
from all over the world. We have to think about that, is there any possibility of Chinese users
will be banned to use VT under the pressure of U.S. government agencies ?
6 https://www.virustotal.com/gui/graph-overview
6
Figure 7 The relationship between malware samples of "Dark Power" and U.S. made "Volt
Typhoon" 1 of 2
Figure 8 The relationship between malware samples of "Dark Power" and U.S. made "Volt
Typhoon" 2 of 2
According to anonymous source from ThreatMon, they had to recall the previous version of
the "Dark Power" report and erase the IP list. In fact, as stakeholders, it is very common that
cybersecurity firms in U.S. manipulated by intelligence agencies. However, they met some
resistance from ThreatMon. "Covering up" the IP list with a "Dark" back cover picture is a
good metaphor. We must pay our respects to the honest person, and everyone reading this
report should do it as well.
Inconsistency between U.S. government agencies and cybersecurity firms
In the joint Cybersecurity Advisory about "Volt Typhoon", the cybersecurity authorities from
Five Eyes countries claimed that "Volt Typhoon" exploited network devices manufactured by
7
NetGear and other vendors and used them as hops, so did the reports from Microsoft.
However, on May 26, 2023, just two days after the reports released, NetGear publish a
security advisory7 regarding "Volt Typhoon", and made a explicit statement that they "are
not aware of any NETGEAR product vulnerabilities being exploited by Volt Typhoon", as
shown in Figure 9.
Figure 9 Security Advisory of NetGear
On February 7, 2024, the CISA issued another cybersecurity advisory8 related to the "Volt
Typhoon" named "PRC State-Sponsored Actors Compromise and Maintain Persistent Access
to U.S. Critical Infrastructure", and declared that the "Volt Typhoon" group has compromised
the
IT
environments
of
multiple
critical
infrastructure
organizations,
including
communications, energy, transportation systems, and water and wastewater systems sectors
in the continental and non-continental U.S. and its territories. Besides that, more details
were provided by the advisory, which said that "Volt Typhoon" exploited the vulnerabilities
of Ivanti Connect Secure VPN. But in April 5, another U.S. based cybersecurity firm Mandiant ,
which belong to Google, released a paper9 named "Cutting Edge, Part 4:Ivanti Connect
Secure VPN Post Exploitation Lateral Movement Case Studies" , and point out that they
found and tracked an "uncategorized" threat group called "UNC5291", which they assess
with medium confidence to be "Volt Typhoon". In addition, Mandiant said that they has not
directly observed Volt Typhoon successfully compromise Ivanti Connect Secure. As shown in
Figure 10.
From above, it is not difficult to conclude that, the view of attribution about "Volt Typhoon"
hold by Five Eyes and Microsoft were not widely accepted by other U.S. cybersecurity
companies, and apparently, the cybersecurity authorities who led the investigation have not
share the cases and critical technical details with related companies.
7 https://kb.netgear.com/000065688/Security-Advisory-Regarding-Volt-Typhoon
8 https://www.cisa.gov/news-events/cybersecurity-advisories/aa24-038a
9 https://cloud.google.com/blog/topics/threat-intelligence/ivanti-post-exploitation-lateral-movement
8
Figure 10 Part of the f Mandiant’s paper
Self-contradiction movement of U.S cybersecurity authorities
As mentioned earlier in our previous report, the U.S DOJ released a press10 titled with " U.S.
Government Disrupts Botnet People’s Republic of China Used to Conceal Hacking of Critical
Infrastructure" on January 31, 2024. It is said that, in December 2023, a a court-authorized
operation has disrupted a botnet of hundreds of U.S.-based routers hijacked by PRC
state-sponsored hackers. In the press conference, officials from DOJ and FBI unanimously
expressed that the operation disrupted the efforts of PRC state-sponsored hackers to gain
access to U.S. critical infrastructures, including Attorney General Merrick B. Garland, FBI
Director Christopher Wray, Assistant Attorney General Matthew G. Olsen of the DOJ’s
National Security Division. However, on April 18, 2024, FBI director Christopher Wary take a
speech11
on
Nashville’s
Vanderbilt
University
and
claimed
that
the
Chinese
government-backed
hacker
group
"Volt
Typhoon"
had
compromised
U.S.
critical
infrastructure entities and waiting "for just the right moment to deal a devastating blow" .
Since the so-called the PRC sponsored hackers has been disrupted in December 2023, why
did FBI completely negate their own achievements in two months ? Or they just totally forgot
it ?
Actually, fabricated by the U.S. government, the "Volt Typhoon" is meant to be a typical
"unidentifiable" actor. Although lacks of specificity for attribution, it could be labeled to any
actor. It is a good question that why U.S. government agencies desperately made up the
so-called "State-Sponsored" hacker group in such ambiguous circumstance. It become clear
when U.S. President Joe Biden signed a Act approved by congress.
3 Review "Operation Volt Typhoon"
10 https://www.justice.gov/opa/pr/us-government-disrupts-botnet-peoples-republic-china-used-conceal-hacking
-critical
11 https://www.reuters.com/technology/cybersecurity/fbi-says-chinese-hackers-preparing-attack-us-infrastructur
e-2024-04-18/
9
In previous report, we had disclosed the truth of "Volt Typhoon" , which is a conspiratorial
swindling campaign intended to "kill two birds with one stone" by hyping the "China threat
theory" and cheating money from the U.S. congress and taxpayers. However, as known to all,
trade power for money is the nature of the U.S. money-oriented politics, and budget
application must be compliance with the department’s functions, in hence, the power of the
U.S. intelligent authorized by law is their lifeblood.
Date back to the beginning of the year 2023, as a major leader of the U.S. intelligence
community, General Paul M. Nakasone, the then-commander of U.S. Cyber Command and
Director and the Chief of National Security Agency, was worrying two major issues which
going in a negative direction.
The first issue is the upcoming expiration of Section 702 of the Foreign Intelligence
Surveillance Act12, or FISA. Section 702 of FISA was about to expire at the end of the year
2023, which is the critical legal basis of the massive internet surveillance program target
citizens from all countries and regions, including U.S, implemented by U.S. intelligence
agencies. FISA is enacted by the U.S. congress in 1978, and it provides a statutory framework
for U.S. intelligence agencies to obtain authorization to gather foreign intelligence. Section
70213 was added to the FISA in 2008. It is widely recognized as a "Warrantless Surveillance
Act" because of it authorized U.S. intelligence to engage in surveillance on non-American
overseas without any court approval. It also force the internet giants, such as Google,
Microsoft, Apple, Meta etc. , to hand in the private data of non-American users to the U.S.
government agencies. The most notorious internet surveillance programme "Prism" which
disclosed by Edward Snowden has been operating by U.S. NSA with the approval of FISA
Section 702.
Nevertheless, FISA Section 702 has always been misusing by U.S. intelligence agencies, hence
Although rather controversial, it was approved to renew in 2018, and continued to be valid
until the end of 2023, under the request of U.S. intelligence agencies for the reason of
counter-terrorism.
As is known to all, there has been great changes taken placed in the international and
domestic situation of the U.S. since 2018. The terrorism is not the biggest threat of U.S. any
more. In the National Security Strategy of the U.S., China, Russia, DPRK, and Iran has been
recognized as major foreign adversaries. In addition, "Black Lives Matters" movement
happened during the prevalence of COVID-19, and Capitol Hill riot happened after the
president election on January 6, 2021. Under the circumstances, U.S. intelligence agencies
has to face great challenges and pressure, especially in the domestic escalating political
conflict. In hence, the misusing of FISA Section 702 is becoming increasingly serious.
According to the
Annual Statistical Transparency Report14 Regarding the Intelligence
12 https://crsreports.congress.gov/product/pdf/IF/IF11451
13 https://www.dni.gov/files/icotr/Section702-Basics-Infographic.pdf
14 https://www.dni.gov/files/CLPT/documents/2023_ASTR_for_CY2022.pdf#page=24
10
Community’s Use of National Security Surveillance Authorities published by the Office of the
U.S. Director of National Intelligence, FISA Section 702 has been misused over 200,000 times
annually on Americans. U.S. intelligence agencies are also criticized by ex-president Donald
Trump and his supporters for misusing the FISA Section 702 to help Democratic and Biden’s
administration spying on his election campaign. Meanwhile, lots of human right groups in
the U.S. continue to call for repeal the Section 702. As a result, renewal of the Section 702
became uncertain.
If the Section 702 failed to be extended, the legal basis of U.S. intelligence agencies’ internet
surveillance and cyber warfare programs would be lost, and those programs had to go
underground. The agencies’ budgets and purchase orders would be reduced accordingly,
which means a great unacceptable regression for the U.S. intelligence agencies,
cybersecurity firms , military-industrial complex, and the capitals. The Five Eyes would
become "Myopic Eyes".
The second issue is about the persecution on Chinese-funded firms. Nowadays, the
productes and services of Chinese IT companies continues to gain popularity around the
world, but have long been recognized as serious threats to the U.S. national security
"theoretically" by the U.S. intelligence community. It is also unacceptable for the U.S.
intelligence agencies leaving such lots of internet firms remains out of their control. Even if
the FISA Section 702 renewal get approved, they most likely won’t be as meek as U.S. firms,
such as Google, Microsoft, Apple and Meta, etc. In hence, from the perspective of the U.S.
government and intelligence agencies, it’s urgent to kick Chinese IT firms out by any kinds of
means as precaution.
January 12, 2023, General Paul M. Nakasone, the then-commander of U.S. Cyber Command
and Director and the Chief of National Security Agency, took a public speech15 and urged U.S.
Congress for renewal of Section 702 and granting more power of surveillance to the
intelligence agencies. He said that Section 702 has played an "irreplaceable" role in helping
the agency fend off ransomware attacks and prevent weapons components from reaching
adversaries, as well as being used to identify threats to U.S. troops. Not surprisingly, the main
subject of the speech is cyber security. Nakasone is very clear that keep pushing the
counter-terrorism theory does not work any more for the Congress. As an expedient
measure, exaggerating cyber threats from abroad become the only option for conducting the
social engineering attack against the Congress and American people.
Of course, it is not enough to earn trust from the members of congress only with verbal trick.
"Great job" performance is essential as well. Under the circumstance, the U.S. intelligence
community must united to defend their interests, and find a "one stone two birds" plan to
deal with the problems mentioned above.
We named the plan and campaign "Operation Volt Typhoon" because the narrative about
the "Volt Typhoon" hacker group is the crucial part of the plan. Based on the known
15 https://therecord.media/nakasone-foreign-surveillance-program-helped-fend-off-cyber-attacks
11
information, "Operation Volt Typhoon" has been activated since the beginning of 2023 or
even earlier. Such a massive operation which involved with multiple countries, departments,
and private-owned firms must cost lots of time and resources. There are three stages so far
as we observed.
Stage I: Preparation (from Jan 2023 to May 2023 approximately)
The priority job in the first stage is to "find" a cyber attack source from other countries,
especially from China, Russia, DPRK and Iran, with victims in U.S. territory. In order to
facilitates the operation, the attacker "should" be China State-Sponsored. Then, as victim, a
critical infrastructure located in the U.S. territory or military bases "would be better".
Furthermore, it would be the best if the victim’s location is far away from public eye and
full-controlled by U.S. Intelligence agencies. Follow the lines above, Guam must be the
perfect victim. As a overseas territory, Guam has the largest U.S air force and navy base in
the western pacific region, the location is extremely important to deter China in strategic.
Half succeed would be achieved by just public announce that the facilities and
communication of U.S military base located in Guam is under cyber attack by China. The
cyber threat awareness and prevention solutions, which cost a lot of money, deployed in the
military base would meet a failure at any suitable time, and let the critical infrastructures
suffered real cyber attacks. As to the threat actor, an "unidentifiable" actorwould be the
perfect scapegoat, and technical details should be given while the attribution should not be
serious.
Next step, there must be someone push it to the public. Microsoft stepped up. Microsoft has
been not going very well in business for the last a couple of years. In July 2021, under Biden’s
administration, U.S. Department of Defense canceled16
a 10 billion contract of cloud
computing program called Joint Enterprise Defense Infrastructure, aka. JEDI, which Microsoft
has won it from Amazon and other competitors in 2019. Then, the U.S. DoD initiated a
substitution program called Joint Warfighting Cloud Capability, aka. JWCC on Dec. 7 2022.
The new program became a multi-vendor program, and the contract amount has been
reduced to 9 billion. Microsoft has to compete with Amazon, Oracle and Google for more
share of contract. Of course, Microsoft was not willing to lose the game that it had won
before. Plus, Microsoft was aware of that, the main objective of JWCC is intelligence
gathering and analysis. If Section 702 failed to be renewed, the following contract including
the JWCC will be cut off. Microsoft must defend the budget and contract of the programs
together with U.S. intelligence community.
Beside that, apparently an one-sided story can’t be bought by the old hands of U.S. Congress.
For more reliable, diverse sources are necessary. The intelligence agencies from Five Eyes
countries are allies of interests. It is reasonable for conduct a joint action with each other.
On May 8, 2023, General Nakasone attended the Vanderbilt University Summit on Modern
16 https://edition.cnn.com/2021/07/06/tech/defense-department-cancels-jedi-contract-amazon-microsoft
/index.html
12
Conflict and Emerging Threats and said17 that the U.S. will stick to strategy of "Defend
Forward". He also pointed out that "U.S. clandestine community would suffer if Congress
fails to renew Section 702 of the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act before the end of the
year".
However, on May 19 2023, the U.S. Foreign intelligence Surveillance Court released a
"Memorandum Opinion and Order"18 which indicated that U.S. intelligence agencies had
conduct surveillance operations violate the Section 702 during the chaos in Capitol Hill
happened on Jan 6 2021 and the BLM movements in 2020.In order to ease the pressure from
the court order, the U.S. intelligence agencies had to activate Operation Volt Typhoon
immediately
On May 24 2023, after half-year planning, the highlight of the Operation Volt Typhoon
arrived. The CSA19 of Five Eyes and report20 of Microsoft released to the public on the same
day, then the medias, which controlled by U.S. intelligence community and the related
Capitals, craft an elaborate narrative . It was successful diversion of the public’s attention on
the topic of misusing the Section 702.
Overall, the first stage of the operation had been going well and get off a good start for the
next stage.
Stage II: Breakthrough (from June 2023 to January 2024 approximately)
More jobs were about to be done in the second stage, but two of them were critical. The first
one would be making sure the Section 702 renewal get approved, the other one would be
acquiring more budget in FY 2025. Inspired by Microsoft’s showing off, Google21, BlackBerry22,
CrowdStrike23, Dragos24 and Fortinet25 join the operation and vie with each other for the
next several months, which kept the topic hot. The reports from those firms were so
multifarious that "Volt Typhoon" could be comparable to superheroes on the movie. It is
thanks to the "unidentifiable" actor that so much imagination were given.
As the end of 2023 is getting closer and closer, the renewal of Section 702 is imminent. On
December 5,2023, In a contentious Senate hearing, FBI director Christopher Wray personally
17 https://therecord.media/nakasone-cyber-strategy-section-702-hunt-forward-russia-ukraine-nato
18 https://www.intelligence.gov/assets/documents/702%20Documents/declassified/21/2021_FISC_
Certification_Opinion.pdf
19 https://media.defense.gov/2023/May/24/2003229517/-1/-1/0/CSA_PRC_State_Sponsored_Cyber_Living_off_
the_Land_v1.1.PDF
20 https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/security/blog/2023/05/24/volt-typhoon-targets-us-critical-infrastructure-
with-living-off-the-land-techniques/
21 https://cloud.google.com/blog/topics/threat-intelligence/chinese-espionage-tactics
22 https://blogs.blackberry.com/en/2023/08/bb-protects-from-volt-typhoon
23 https://www.crowdstrike.com/blog/falcon-complete-thwarts-vanguard-panda-tradecraft/
24 https://hub.dragos.com/report/voltzite-espionage-operations-targeting-u.s.-critical-systems
25 https://www.fortinet.com/blog/psirt-blogs/analysis-of-cve-2023-27997-and-clarifications-on-volt-typhoon-
campaign
13
to defend26 Section 702, questioned by senators about abuses of spying on Americans,
Christopher Wray repeatedly claimed that "section 702" is crucial to combat cyber crime and
terrorism. But he didn’t win the trust from all senators. Sen. Mike Lee said "We have no
reason to trust you because you haven’t behaved in a way that is trustworthy".
On December 8,2023, at an event27 of the an Intelligence and National Security Alliance held
in Arlington, Virginia, Nakasone again stood out and publicly urged for the US Congress to
reauthorize Section 702.
On December 13,2023, Another vendor of the U.S. DoD, Lumen Technology stepped up and
released a report28 and claimed that the hacker group used the Internet of Things botnet
named "KV-Botnet" as a hop in its cyber attack activities. At the request of the U.S. Agency
for Global Meida (USAGM), the report once again sparked heated debate and a new round of
"China threat theory" hype.
But that is still not enough, and opposition to the renewal of Section 702 remained high in
the U.S. The U.S. intelligence agencies play a trick which was inclusion of Section 702
re-authorization in the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) which was a must-pass
legislation. Although more than 30 social organizations in the United States signed a letter29
to Congress requesting the removal of the Section 702 from NDAA, the bill was finally
passed30 on December 22, 2023, and Section 702 was extended to April 19, 2024. For the U.
S. intelligence agencies, although they had not achieve the goal of long-term extension for
Section 702, it was kind of a relief for a moment.
Another big challenge is to increase the budget for the next fiscal year. It must be fully
prepared before the president submits the budget for the next fiscal year on February 5,2024.
Therefore, on January 31,2024, when the US Department of Justice announced that it had
successfully cleared KV-Botnets31 from hundreds of routers across the country by organizing
special operations. CISA and FBI jointly issued32 "Secure by Design Alert: Security Design
Improvements for SOHO Device Manufacturers", which claimed that, including the Chinese
government sponsored "Volt Typhoon" group, hackers were targeting small commercial and
home network equipment attacks, the U.S. government urged all related equipment
manufacturers to strengthen security design and fix vulnerabilities.
The most important "show time" was also presented on January 31,2023, when the select
26 https://www.usatoday.com/story/news/politics/2023/12/05/fbi-director-christopher-wray-702-surveillance-
senate-judiciary/71813997007/
27 https://www.c4isrnet.com/battlefield-tech/it-networks/2023/12/08/cyber-commands-nakasone-urges-
enewal-of-foreign-spy-law/
28 https://blog.lumen.com/routers-roasting-on-an-open-firewall-the-kv-botnet-investigation/
29 https://www.brennancenter.org/our-work/research-reports/coalition-letter-urges-congressional-leaders-
keep-reauthorization-section
30 https://www.congress.gov/118/plaws/publ31/PLAW-118publ31.pdf#page=974
31 https://www.justice.gov/opa/pr/us-government-disrupts-botnet-peoples-republic-china-used-conceal
-hacking-critical
32 https://www.cisa.gov/resources-tools/resources/secure-design-alert-security-design-improvements-soho-
device-manufacturers?utm_source=FBI&utm_medium=press_release&utm_campaign=SbD_SOHO
14
committee on the CCP of the U.S. House of Representatives held a hearing33 titled "CCP
Cyber Threat to the American Homeland and National Security" at the office building of the
House of Representatives in Washington. The chairman of the special committee on China,
Mike Gallagher chaired the meeting, The head of Big 4 of U.S. cybersecurity agencies
attended the hearing as witnesses. By hyping the threats from so-called "China-sponsored"
hacker group for gaining the resonance of congress. It was the highlight moment of the
Operation Volt Typhoon. Christopher Wray, director of the FBI, declared34 publicly at the
hearing that "Section 702 is the most powerful tool for the FBI to combat Chinese hackers."
It fully exposes the real purpose of the hearing, which is to seek the renewal of Section 702
under the guise of the so-called Chinese hacker cyber attacks, in order to keep the power of
U.S. intelligence agencies to conduct "warrant-less surveillance" on global Internet users and
related financial guarantee. It was embodied in the U.S. Federal government budget35 for
fiscal year 2025. This part has been detailed in our previous Volt Typhoon report.
At this point, the goal of the Operation Volt Typhoon was partially achieved, because the
authorization period of Section 702 was only extended to April 19,2024, far from meeting
expectations.
Stage III: Persistence
(from February 2024 to April 2024 approximately)
As the deadline approaching again, the sounds of domestic opposition became louder and
louder, the former President of the United States Donald Trump also claimed36 that he has
become the victim of Section 702 directly. American democracy fighter Snowden and
Wikileak
also called for the American people to oppose Section 702 being renewed again
through the X platform.
At the same time, the U.S. intelligence agencies continued to hype the "China cyber threat
theory" with the "Volt Typhoon" narrative according to the established plan, and once again
took advantage of the "Five Eyes" intelligence cooperation mechanism to mislead public
opinion for the renewal of the Section 702.
On February 7th, 2024, The U.S. Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency (CISA)
under the Department of Homeland Security, together with the Department of Energy, the
Environmental Protection Agency and other federal agencies, and other Five Eyes countries’
cybersecurity authorities, jointly issued a security advisory37 called "PRC State-Sponsored
Actors Compromise and Maintain Persistent Access to U.S. Critical Infrastructure". The
advisory hyped Volt Typhoon again, trying to divert attentions of the members of Congress
33 http://selectcommitteeontheccp.house.gov/committee-activity/hearings/hearing-notice-ccp-cyber-threat-
american- homeland-and-national-security
34 https://selectcommitteeontheccp.house.gov/media/press-releases/chairman-gallaghers-opening-remarks-and-witness-
testimony-2
35 https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2024/03/budget_fy2025.pdf
36 https://thehill.com/policy/national-security/4584988-trump-on-warrantless-surveillance-reauthorization-
kill-fisa/
37 https://www.cisa.gov/news-events/alerts/2024/02/07/cisa-and-partners-release-advisory-prc-sponsored-volt
-typhoon-activity-and-supplemental -living-land
15
and the public, continue to render the false alarm about threat of Chinese cyber attacks. And
at the relevant press conference held on February 7, according to Cynthia Kaiser38, deputy
assistant director for the FBI's cybersecurity division, FBI investigators used the Section 702
as a tool in monitoring and collecting data from the so-called hacker group from China
against the key infrastructure attacks, but declined to give further details. This is further
proof that the Operation Volt Typhoon is an important bargaining chip owned by U.S.
intelligence agencies fighting for the renewal of Section 702. Moreover, the U.S. intelligence
agencies can refuse to disclose the details of the attribution investigation on the grounds of
confidentiality. and the current members of the U.S. Congress, as non-professionals, cannot
make a correct judgment even if they see the so-called evidence.
The CISA keep playing the game, on March 19th, 2024, another cybersecurity alert39 tiltled
"PRC State-Sponsored Cyber Activity: Actions for Critical Infrastructure Leaders" was
published. In the tone of an executive order, CISA have asked American critical infrastructure
authorities to take precautions against the so-called "Volt Typhoon" attacks. Literally, the
alert is a sequel of the previous cybersecurity advisor published by the Five Eyes Alliance, but
in fact it was clearly a "warn" on critical infrastructures owned by private operators in the
United States. It is well known that many of the U.S. critical infrastructure operators are
private sectors, which have long been reluctant to add unnecessary investment in
cybersecurity for their own interests. The CISA has been so bitter about it. For many
American cybersecurity vendors such as Microsoft, the critical infrastructure cybersecurity
solutions are "big cakes", and it should also be the reasonable reward for playing a big role of
Operation Volt Typhoon. Therefore, the CISA did not hesitate to use its administrative power
to "intimidate" these private units, forcing the private sector to increase their investment in
cybersecurity, so as to win greater interests for the American cybersecurity enterprises and
the capitalists behind them.
On April 9, 2024, a bill titled "Reforming Intelligence and Securing America Act", aka. RISAA,
was submitted to the house of representatives, the bill proposed Section 702 extension for
another two years, and further expand the Section 702 in the "electronic communication
service provider" (ECSP) definition, which also means that Section 702 would authorize U.S.
intelligence agencies to conduct surveillance program in a broader scope.
On April 12,2024, just before the voting of RISAA bill in U.S. House of Representatives,
General Timothy Haugh, who has took over General Nakasone’s position40, made Posture
Statement41 on behalf of U.S. Cyber Command, which once again criticized that the cyber
activities of China, Russia, Iran and DPRK were top threats to national security of U.S. and
allies, and pointed out they are “particularly focused on defending against PRC’s persistent
access and pre-positioning for attack on U.S. critical infrastructures. Finally, after a tight vote,
the U.S. House of Representatives approved the RISAA bill by 273-147 on April 12,2024.
38 https://www.theregister.com/2024/02/09/fbi_volt_typhoon_section_702/
39 https://www.cisa.gov/resources-tools/resources/prc-state-sponsored-cyber-activity-actions-critical
-infrastructure-leaders
40 https://defensescoop.com/2024/02/02/timothy-haugh-takes-over-cyber-command-nakasone/
41 https://www.cybercom.mil/Media/News/Article/3739700/posture-statement-of-general-timothy-d-haugh-2024/
16
After the RISAA bill passed the House of Representatives, Americans have not stopped their
efforts to veto it. On April 16,2024, more than 70 private organizations, including the
Electronic Privacy Information Center (EPIC), signed a letter42 to members of the U.S. Senate,
asking the Senate to veto the bill. The U.S. intelligence agencies had to take it seriously.
On April 18,2024, the day before voting Section 702 extension bill in the senate, In order to
manipulate public opinion and put more pressure on the senators, FBI director Christopher
Wray took a speech again in Tennessee Vanderbilt University, and claimed that the China
sponsored "Volt Typhoon" has successfully compromised many American companies,
including 23 firms in pipeline transportation sector.
Finally, on the deadline of April 19,2024, the U.S. Senate passed the bill by 60-34 votes,
which was quickly signed after it was submitted to U.S. President Joe Biden on April 20.
Meanwhile, another battle of beating Chinese IT firms has made a progess as well. Thanks to
hyping "Volt typhoon" narrative, all the so-called cybersecurity threats related to China have
been highly valued by the U.S. politicians.
On February 28,2024, president Joe Biden signed an Executive Order43 to protect Americans’
sensitive personal data from exploitation by "countries of concern", which intend to restrict
China and other foreign strategic rivals access to sensitive personal data of U.S. The executive
order requires the Department of Justice to issue regulations that establish clear protections
for Americans’ sensitive personal data from access and exploitation by countries of concern.
On the 13th day of March, 2024, The U. S. House of Representatives suddenly voted 352-65
to pass the H.R.7521 bill, called Protecting Americans from Foreign Adversary Controlled
Applications Act, proposed by Mike Gallagher, then chairman of the U. S. Special Committee
on China, which prohibits distributing, maintaining, or providing internet hosting services for
a foreign adversary controlled application. Gallagher said he had been secretly preparing
with his colleagues for eight months to prevent the bill from being leaked to the media in
advance. According to the media, the main reason for the bill is that both Democratic and
Republican lawmakers believe that Chinese IT companies pose risks to the national security
of the US, which is also due to the Operation Volt Typhoon. On April 23,2024, Speaker of the
House of Representatives Bill Johnson tied the bill into a series of emergency supplementary
funding bills totaling $95 billion to aid Ukraine and Israel, before passing a Senate vote.
Before the Senate vote, Mark Warner, chairman of the Senate Intelligence Committee and a
famous anti-China politician, also delivered a speech to the Senate and claimed that the
ordinary Americans could not know the "secret intelligence" provided by the US intelligence
agencies, so they did not understand the Chinese IT products’ risks "to the US national
security". And advocated that those products "should not be owned or controlled by an
42 https://epic.org/epic-coalition-urge-opposition-to-risaa-terrifying-expansion-of-fisa-section-702/
43 https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/02/28/fact-sheet-president-biden
-issues-sweeping-executive-order-to-protect-americans-sensitive-personal-data/
17
'adversary' country recognized by American law." The so-called "secret intelligence" is bound
to be the "result" of Section 702, and apparently a set-up on China, which is just a piece of
cake for the US intelligence agencies with "warrant-less surveillance rights".
On April 24,2024, the bill was signed by U.S. President Joe Biden.
TikTok Immediately said it would use legal means to protect its rights, but facing the joint
striking of the U.S. Congress, the U.S. government, intelligence agencies and monopoly
capital, TikTok must be in a very difficult situation.
At this point, despite the process of difficulties and twists and turns, the U.S. intelligence
agencies finally satisfied with Operation Volt Typhoon’s overall victory. Over the next two
years, American intelligence agencies will not only retain their power, secure higher budgets,
expand surveillance, but also gain a great hope for getting rid of ByteDance.
At last, General Nakasone, who made great contribution to the Operation Volt Typhoon,
retired in February 2024, but the U.S. government, intelligence community, cybersecurity
firms and the capitalists behind them certainly know the truth of “not forgetting the people
who dug the well”. On June 13, 2024, OpenAI, the famous artificial intelligence innovation
company and the founder of the “ChatGPT”, announced the hiring of Nakasone as a member
of the company’s board of directors44. As we all know, OpenAI’s largest shareholder is
Microsoft. Obviously, Nakasone, as an executive of the company, will “help” OpenAI to better
comply with the Section 702, while enjoying high salary. Moreover, on June 10, 2024, OpenAI
announced a cooperation with Apple45 to further integrate ChatGPT with Apple iOS, iPadOS
and MacOS, including the Siri assistant and other writing tools that come with Apple’s
operating systems. The activities conducted by U.S. government entities and intelligence
agencies has exposed their objective obliviously and also means the massive surveillance
program of the “Empire of Hacking” has entered the “Era of AI”.
As the principal indirect victim, China has not only suffered a grievance but also cyber attacks
lunched by U.S. intelligence. On June 22, 2022, Northwestern Pyrotechnical University, which
known for its education and research programs inf the fields of aeronautics, astronautics and
marine technology engineering and located in Xi’an, Shaanxi province, China, called the
police and made a statement that its internal servers had been suffered cyber attack in April,
2022. In September, 2022, China’s National Computer Virus Emergency Response Center and
cybersecurity company 360 released the investigate report which indicated that the cyber
attack was conducted by U.S. NSA’s Office of Tailored Access Operation, and also provided
the whole picture, technical details, cyber warfare and TTPs( Tactic, Technique, Procedure).
Beside that, on July 26, 2023, the Wuhan Municipal Emergency Management Bureau from
Hubei province in China said in a statement that some of the network equipment of the
front-end station collection points of the Wuhan Earthquake Monitoring Center, were
subjected to a cyber attack by a overseas actor, the joint-investigate team of China identified
44 https://www.theverge.com/2024/6/13/24178079/openai-board-paul-nakasone-nsa-safety
45 https://openai.com/index/openai-and-apple-announce-partnership/
18
the actor as a state-sponsored group came from the U.S..
In addition, according to analysis on existing data, there has been more than 45 million cyber
attacks activities from U.S. government sponsored hackers against to the Chinese
government, universities, research institutions, large enterprises, and critical infrastructure,
and the number of victims is more than 140. Tradecrafts collected from the victims’ network
have been proved to be related to cyber warfare program operated by U.S. Central
Intelligence Agency (CIA), the National Security Agency and the Federal Bureau of
Investigation departments with the Section 702 authorization.
4 Conclusion
The Operation Volt Typhoon once again exposed the essence of "money politics" in the
United States, which is inevitable with the background of intensifying conflict in political and
interests of the U.S. and the global hegemony that the United States is trying to maintain.
The conspiracy, which the U.S. politicians intend to export their own problems for their own
interests, is seriously harming China's interests and intolerable to all Chinese people.
In the next few years, we expect that, under the control of the U.S. intelligence agencies,
more false "foreign government sponsored cyber attacks" narrative will be made by the
cybersecurity companies, constantly cheat the U.S. congress approval more budget and
increase the debt burden of American taxpayers. In fact, U.S. intelligence agencies and
military agencies have long been colluding with related suppliers, fabricating false budgets,
and wasting government funds from American taxpayers in buying high price but low quality
products for their own benefits. Since the United States describes itself as the international
"model of the rule of law" and a "Lighthouse of human rights", these politicians, officials and
private enterprises involved in the collusion and fraud should pay the price for their illegal
act. At the same time, we also advise U.S. politicians should mind their own business when
dealing with domestic political issues, don't always take China as a "cover" for their own dirty
jobs. They are better to abandon the ideas of
isolate China and curb the development of
China.
Finally, we also warn all countries and people who are pursuing peaceful development
around the world that the U.S. Section 702 of FISA is an important legal basis for the U.S. to
build the "Empire of Hacking". It is a serious threat not only to the American people, but also
to the privacy of all ordinary people and sovereign security of all countries in the world,
including China. We call on the governments and people of all countries to oppose and resist
the hegemonism of the U.S. who taking the advantages of technology to undermine the
sovereignty of other countries and the legitimate interests of its people.
