TLP:CLEA R
Product Security Bad Practices  
Pub
lication: October 2024  
Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency  
Federal Bureau of Investigation  
This document is distributed as TLP:CLEAR. Recipients may distribute TLP:CLEAR information without 
restrictions. Information is subject to standard copyright rules. For more information on the Traffic Light Protocol, see cisa.gov/tlp . 
TLP:CLEA R 
TLP:CLEA R 
Table of Contents  
Overview  ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ .................  3 
Product Properties  ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ .. 3 
Development in Memory Unsafe Languages (CWE -119 and related weaknesses)  ............................ 3  
Inclusion of User -Provided Input in SQL Query Strings (CWE -89) ......................................................... 4  
Inclusion of User -Provided Input in Operating System Command Strings (CWE -78) .......................... 4  
Presence of Default Passwords (CWE -1392 and CWE -1393)  .............................................................. 5  
Presence of Known Exploited Vulnerabilities  ........................................................................................ 5  
Presence of Open Source Software with Known Exploitable Critical Vulnerabilities  .......................... 6  
Security Features  ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ... 7 
Lack of Multi-Factor Authentication  ....................................................................................................... 7  
Lack of Capability to Gather Evidence of Intrusions  ............................................................................. 7  
Organizational Processes and Policies  ................................ ................................ ................................ ... 8 
Failing to Publish Timely CVEs with CWEs  .............................................................................................. 8  
Failing to Publish a Vulnerability Disclosure Policy  ............................................................................... 8  
CISA | FBI  
TLP:CLEA R 
2
TLP:CLEA R 
Overview  
As outlined in CISA’s Secure by Design initiative, software manufacturers should ensure that security 
is a core consideration from the onset of software development. This voluntary guidance provides an 
overview of product security bad practices  that are deeme d exceptionally risky, particularly for 
software manufacturers  who produce software used in service of critical infrastructure or national 
critical functions (NCFs)  and provides recommendations for software manufacturers to mitigate 
these risks.  
The U.S. C ybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency (CISA) and the Federal Bureau of 
Investigation (FBI) (hereafter referred to as the authoring organizations) developed this guidance to urge software manufacturers to reduce customer risk by prioritizing security throughout the product development process.  This document is intended for  software manufacturers  who develop software 
products and services —including on-premises software, cloud services, and software as a service 
(SaaS) —used in support of critical infrastructure or NCFs.  The authoring organizations strongly 
encourage all software manufacturers to avoid these product security bad practices. By following the 
recommendations in this guidance, manufacturers will signal to customers that they are taking 
ownership of customer security outcomes, a key Secure by Design principle . The guidance contained 
in this document is non -binding and while CISA encourages organizations to avoid these bad 
practices, this document imposes no requirement on them to do so.  
The bad practices  are divided into three categories . 
1. Product properties, which describe the observable , security -related qualities of a software 
product.  
2. Security features, which describe the security functionalities that a product supports.  
3. Organizational processes and policies, which describe the actions taken by a software 
manufacturer to ensure strong transparency in its approach to security.  
This list is focused  and does not include every possible inadvisable cybersecurity practice. The lack 
of inclusion of any particular cybersecurity practice does not indicate that CISA endorses such a 
practice or deems such a practice to present acceptable levels of risk. Item s present in this list were 
chosen based on the threat landscape as representing the most dangerous and pressing bad 
practices that software manufacturers should avoid.  
Product Properties  
Development in Memory Unsafe Languages ( CWE -119 and related 
weak
nesses)  1
1 Common Weakness Enumeration.  The development of new product lines for use in service of critical infrastructure or NCFs in a 
memory -unsafe language (e.g., C or C++) where there are readily available alternative memory -safe 
 
CISA | FBI  
TLP:CLEA R 
3
TLP:CLEA R 
languages that could be used is dangerous and significantly elevates risk to national security, 
national economic security, and national public health and safety . 
For existing products that are written in memory -unsafe languages, not having a published memory 
safety roadmap by January 1, 2026 is dangerous and significantly elevates risk to national security, national economic security, and national public health and safety. The memory safety roadmap  
should outline t he manufacturer’s  prioritized approach to eliminating memory safety vulnerabilities 
in priority code components (e.g., network -facing code or code that handles sensitive functions like 
cryptographic operations) . Manufacturers should demonstrate that the me mory safety roadmap will 
lead to a significant, prioritized reduction of memory safety vulnerabilities in the manufacturer’s 
products and demonstrate they are making a reasonable effort to follow the memory safety 
roadmap. This does not apply to products t hat have an announced end -of-support date that is prior 
to January 1, 2030.  
Recommended action:  Software manufacturers should build products in a manner that 
systematically prevents the introduction of memory safety vulnerabilities, such as by using a memory 
safe language or hardware capabilities that prevent memory safety vulnerabilities.  Additionally, 
software manufacturers should publish a memory safety roadmap by January 1, 2026.  
Resources:  The Case for Memory Safe Roadmaps , CI SA Secure by Design Pledge  (Reducing Cl asses 
of Vulnerability), Back to The Building Blocks , NIST Secure Software Development Framework ( SSDF ) 
PW 6. 1. 
Inclusion of User -Provided Input in SQL Query Strings  (CWE -89) 
The inclusion of user -provided input directly in the raw contents of a SQL database query string in 
products used in service of critical infrastructure or NCFs  is dangerous and significantly elevates risk 
to national security, national economic security, and national public health and safety.  
Recommended action:  Products should be built in a manner that systematically prevents the 
introduction of SQL injection vulnerabilities, such as by consistently enforcing the use of parametrized queries.  
Resources:  CISA Secure by Design Pledge (Reducing Classes of Vulnerability), SSDF PW .5.1, CISA 
SQ
L Injection Secure by Design Alert . 
Inclusion of User -Provided Input in Operating System Command Strings 
(CWE- 78) 
The inclusion of user -provided input directly in the raw contents of an operating system command 
string in products used in service of critical infrastructure or NCFs  is dangerous and significantly 
elevates risk to national security, national economic secu rity, and national public health and safety.  
Recommended action:  Software manufacturers should build products in a manner that 
systematically prevents command injection vulnerabilities, such as by consistently ensuring that 
command inputs are clearly delineated from the contents of a command itself.  
Resources:  CISA Secure by Design Pledge (Reducing Classes of Vulnerability), SSDF PW .5.1. 
CISA | FBI  
TLP:CLEA R 
4 
TLP:CLEA R 
Presence of Default Passwords  (CWE- 1392  and CWE -1393) 
The release of a product used in service of critical infrastructure or NCFs  with default passwords, 
which CISA defines  as universally -shared passwords that are present by default across a product, is 
dangerous and significantly  e levates risk to national security, national economic security, and 
national public health and safety.  
Recommended action:  Software manufacturers should ensure that default passwords are not 
present in a product , such as  by: 
• Providing random, instance -unique initial passwords for the product.  
• Requiring the user install ing the product to create a strong password at the start of the 
installation process.  
• Providing time -limited setup passwords that disable themselves when a setup process is 
complete and requi re configuration of a secure password (or more secure authentication 
approaches, such as phishing -resistant MFA).  
• Requiring physical access for initial setup and the specification of instance -unique 
credentials.  
• Conducting campaigns or offering updates tha t transition existing deployments from default 
passwords to more secure authentication mechanisms.  
Resources:  CISA Secure by Design Pledge (Default Passwords), SSDF PW .9.1, CISA Default 
Passwords Secure by Design Alert . 
Presence of Known Exploited Vulnerabilities  
The release of a product used in service of criti cal infrastructure or NCFs  that, at time of release, 
includes a component that contains an exploitable vulnerability present on CISA’s Known Exploited 
Vulnerabilities (KEV) Catalog  is dangerous and significantly elevates risk to national security, national 
economic secur ity, and national public health and safety. Additionally, if a new KEV affecting the 
product  is published in CISA’s catalog, failure to issue a patch at no cost to its users in a timely 
manner if the KEV is exploitable in the product or failure to publicly document the presence of the 
vulnerability if the KEV is not exploitable in the product, i s dangerous and significantly elevates risk 
to national security, national economic security, and national public health and safety.  
Recommended action:  Software man ufacturers should patch all known exploited vulnerabilities 
within software components prior to release. In the case of the publication of a new KEV on CISA’s 
catalog, the manufacturer should issue a patch at no cost to its users in a timely manner  (under no 
circumstances longer than 30 days) and clearly warn users of the associated risks of  not install ing 
the patch.  
If the manufacturer deems that a KEV cannot be exploited in its product (because, for instance, the 
KEV is only exploitable via a function that is never called), the manufacturer should publicly publish 
CISA | FBI  
TLP:CLEA R 
5 
TLP:CLEA R 
written documentation acknowledging the KEV and explaining how it is not exploitable in their 
product.2
2 Ideally, the documentation should be published  in a machine -processable format through Vulnerability Exploitability eXchange 
(VEX).   
Resources:  CISA Secure by Design Pledge (Security Patches), SSDF PW .4.4, Binding Operational 
Di
rective 22- 01. 
Presence of Open Source  Software with Known Exploitable Vulnerabilities  
The release of a product used in service of critical infrastructure or NCFs  that, at time of release, 
includes open  source software components that have known exploitable vulnerabilities is dangerous 
and sig nificantly elevates risk to national security, national economic security, and national public 
health and safety.3
3 Critical vulnerabilities are defined as those with a Common Vulnerability Scoring System (CVSS) score of 9.0 or greater.   Additionally, if exploitable vulnerabilities are subsequently disclosed in the 
included open source components, failure to issue a patch or other mitigation at no cost to the 
product’s users in a timely manner is dangerous and significantly elevates risk to national security, 
national economic security, and national public health and safety.  
Recommended action:  Software manufacturers should re sponsibly consume and sustainably 
contribute to the open  source software that they depend on. This includes making a reasonable 
effort to evaluate and secure their ope n source software dependencies by taking the following 
actions: 4
4 Organizations may choose to establish an open  source program office (OSPO) to centralize these activities.  
• Maintaining a software bill of materials (SBOM) describing all first - and third -party software 
dependencies, both open source and proprietary, and being able to provide this to customers.  
• Having an established process for managing the incorporation of open  source softwa re, 
including taking reasonable steps to:  
o Run security scanning tools on each open  source software component when selected, 
including its dependencies and transitive dependencies, and each subsequent version when updated.  
o Select open  source software projects that are well -maintained, and— when appropriate —
contribute to the project’s ongoing maintenance to sustain the expected standard of quality.  
o Evaluate alternatives to identify and select the most well -secured  and maintained option.  
o Download  open  source software project artifacts from package repositories (or other 
appropriate sources) that adhere to security best practices . 
o Routinely monitor for Common Vulnerabilities and Exposures (CVEs) or other security -
relevant alerts, such as end-of -life, in all open  source software dependencies and update 
them as necess ary. 
 
CISA | FBI  
TLP:CLEA R 
6 
TLP:CLEA R 
o Cache copies of all open -source dependencies within the manufact urer’s own build 
systems and do not update products or customer systems directly from unverified public 
sources.  
• Including the cost of updating to new major versions of third -party open  source software 
dependencies in business planning activities and ensur ing that such dependencies continue 
to receive necessary security fixes for the expected product life.  
Resources:  SSDF PW .4.4, ESF Recommended Practices for Managing Open Source Software and 
So
ftware Bill of Materials , TODO Group Open Source Program Office (OSPO) Definition and Guide . 
Security Features  
Lack of Multi factor Authentication  
For products used in service of critical infrastructure or NCFs  that authenticate users  not supporting  
multi -factor authentication (MFA) in the baseline version of the product is dangerous and 
significantly elevates risk to national security, national economic security, and  national public health 
and safety.  
Additionally, products that do not enable MFA by default for administrator accounts after January 1, 
2026 are dangerous and significantly elevate risk to national security, national economic security, 
and national public  health and safety. This does not apply to products that have an announced end-
of-support date that is prior to January 1, 2028.  
Recommend action:  Software manufacturers should either support MFA natively in the product (if 
the product itself handles authe ntication) or support in the baseline version of the product the use of 
an external identity provider, such as via single sign on. Require MFA for administrators.  
Resources:  CISA Secure by Design Pledge (Multi -Factor Authentication), SSDF  PW.9. 
Lack of Capabilit y to Gather Evidence of Intrusions  
For products used in service of critical infrastructure or  NCFs , it is dangerous and significantly 
elevates risk to national security, national economic security, and national public health and safety to not prov ide customers with artifacts and capabilities in the baseline version of the product 
sufficient to gather evidence of common forms of intrusions affecting the product, which at minimum 
includes:  
• Configuration changes or reading configuration settings;  
• Identity (e.g., sign -in and token creation) and network flows, if applicable; and  
• Data access or creation of business -relevant data.  
Recommended action:  
• As part of the baseline version of a product, software manufacturers should make logs 
available in an indus try-standard format related to, at minimum, the above listed areas.  
CISA | FBI  
TLP:CLEA R 
7 
TLP:CLEA R 
• For cloud service providers and SaaS products, software manufacturers should retain logs 
for a set timeframe (at least 6 months) at no additional charge.  
Resources:  CISA Secure by Design Pledge (Evidence of Intrusions ). 
Organizational Processes and Policies  
Failing to Publish Timely CVEs with CWEs  
For products used in service of critical infrastructure or  NCFs , it is dangerous and significantly 
elevates risk to national security, national economic security, and national public health and safety for the software manufacturer to not issue CVEs in a timely manner for, at minimum, all critical or high impact vulnerabilities (whether discovered internally or by a third party). Additionally, it is 
dangerous and significantly elevates risk to national security, national economic security, and 
national public health and safety to not include the CWE field in every CVE record.  
Recommended action:  Software manufacturers sho uld publish complete CVEs, including the 
appropriate CWE field, in a timely manner for all critical or high impact vulnerabilities.  
Resources:  CISA Secure by Design Pledge (CVEs), SSDF RV.1. 3. 
Failing to Publish a Vulnerability Disclosure Policy  
For produc ts used in service of critical infrastructure or  NCFs , not having a published vulnerability 
disclosure policy (VDP) that includes the product in its scope is dangerous and significantly elevates risk to national security, national economic security, and national public health and safety . 
Recommended actions:  
• Software manufacturers should publish a VDP that:  
o Authorizes testing by members of the public on products offered by the manufacturer ; 
o Commits to not recommending or pursuing legal action against anyone  engaging in good 
faith efforts to follow the VDP , 
o Provides a clear channel to report vulnerabilities; and  
o Allows  for public disclosure of vulnerabilities in line with coordinated vulnerability 
disclosure (CVD) best practices and international standards.  
• Software manufacturers should remediate all valid reported vulnerabilities in a timely and risk-prioritized manner . 
Resources:  CISA Secure by Design Pledge (Vulnerability Disclosure Policy), SSDF RV .1.3, ISO 29147. 
CISA | FBI  
TLP:CLEA R 
8 
