1/3
securelist.com
/updated-mata-attacks-industrial-companies-in-eastern-europe/110829/
Updated MATA attacks industrial companies in Eastern Europe
Authors

GReAT

Kaspersky ICS CERT
In early September 2022, we discovered several new malware samples belonging to the MATA cluster. As we were
collecting and analyzing the relevant telemetry data, we realized the campaign had been launched in mid-August
2022 and targeted over a dozen corporations in Eastern Europe from the oil and gas sector and defense industry.
The actors behind the attack used spear-phishing mails to target several victims, some were infected with Windows
executable malware by downloading files through an internet browser. Each phishing document contains an external
link to fetch a remote page containing a CVE-2021-26411 exploit. The attackers continued to send malicious
documents via email until the end of September 2022. Overall, the campaign remained active over 6 months, until
May 2023.
The infection chain
After analyzing the timeline and functionality of each malware, we have determined the infection chain of the
campaign, although some parts remain unknown due to limited visibility. The attacker employed a combination of
loader, main trojan, and stealer infection chains similar to those used by the previous MATA cluster and updated each
malware’s capabilities. Moreover, they introduced a process to validate compromised victims to ensure careful
malware delivery.
The new MATA infection chain
Incident investigation
A turning point in the investigation was the discovery of two MATA samples that had internal IP addresses set as C&C
server addresses. Attackers often create a chain of proxy servers within a corporate network to communicate
2/3
between the malware and C&C, for example, if the infected system does not have direct access to the internet. Of
course, we have seen this before, but in this case the malware configuration included IP addresses from a subnet we
were unfamiliar with at the time, and it caught our attention. We immediately notified the affected organization of the
likely compromise of systems with these IP addresses and received a swift response.
Starting to investigate this case we realized that the compromised systems were financial software servers and that
these servers were having network access to several dozen subsidiaries of the targeted organization. At that point,
we realized the compromise of one plant’s domain controller was just the tip of the iceberg. As we continued our
investigation, we found that the attackers started the attack from the factory, using a phishing email, and progressed
through the network until they discovered the shortcut of an RDP connection to the parent company’s terminal server.
Then they acquired the user’s credentials and connected to the terminal server. After that, attackers repeated
everything they had done at the attacked plant, but this time on the scale of the entire parent company. Using a
vulnerability in a legitimate driver and a rootkit, they interfered with the antivirus, intercepted user credentials (many of
which were cached on the terminal server, including accounts with administrator privileges on many systems), and
began actively moving around the network.
Naturally, this led to the parent company’s domain controller being compromised and control being gained over even
more workstations and servers. But the attackers did not stop there. Next, they were able to access the control
panels of two security solutions simultaneously. First, they got control over a solution for checking the compliance of
systems with information security requirements by exploiting one of its vulnerabilities. Second, with the help of this
security solution, they managed to get access to the control panel of the endpoint protection solution that had not
been securely configured.

In both cases, security solutions were used by attackers to gather information about the targeted organization’s
infrastructure and to distribute malware, as both systems have the capability to deploy and execute files remotely. As
a result, taking over centralized systems for managing security solutions allowed the attackers to spread the malware
to multiple subsidiaries at once, as well as infect servers running Unix-like systems (that they couldn’t access even
after gaining full control of the organization’s domain) with Linux-variant MATA.
Interesting findings
Three new generations of the MATA malware 
The first of the new generations is an evolution of previous MATA generation 2. Second, we dubbed
“MataDoor”, has been rewritten from scratch and may be considered as generation 4. The last one we named
MATA gen.5 and it has been rewritten from the scratch as well. Like previous generations, it has extensive
remote control capabilities over the infected system, has a modular architecture, and provides attackers with
the ability to connect to control servers using various protocols, as well as supporting flexible proxy server
chains.
Linux MATA generation 3

As said above, we observed that the actor spread the MATA Linux version through security solutions to several
Linux servers. We’ve seen identical ELF malware on several paths including anti-malware solution control
server and Linux hosts. Therefore, we strongly believe that this malware was delivered by security solutions
remote installation functionality. The Linux version has very similar capability to the 3rd generation MATA
Windows version, and seems to have been built from the same sources.
USB propagation module capable of bridging the air-gapped networks.

It is a special malware module designed to send commands to the infected system via removable media. The
same module is also responsible for transporting data collected by the malware on the infected system, which
is also done via USB. In our opinion, this component is used by attackers to infiltrate systems that are air-
gapped from subnets that have access to the internet, since such systems usually store the most sensitive
information.
Stealers

In previous MATA activity targeting the defense industry, a stealer malware was delivered to the victim.
Likewise in this attack, the actor delivered the malware responsible for stealing sensitive information through
the complicated infection procedure. The actor employed a variety of stealers based on the circumstances. In
some instances, they used malware that was only capable of capturing screenshots from the user’s device. In
other cases, there were stealers aimed to exfiltrate stored credentials and cookies from the victim.
EDR/Security bypass tools

In some cases, we observed the actor took advantage of a public exploit called CallbackHell to escalate
privilege and bypass endpoint security products. The exploit, which we discovered and reported in 2021,
triggers CVE-2021-40449 vulnerability, a use-after-free vulnerability, in Win32k’s NtGdiResetDC API. This
added layer of complexity allowed them to operate undetected and achieve their objectives more effectively.
Similarly, they used the BYOD (Bring Your Own Vulnerable Driver) technique when attacking systems that had
the CVE-2021-40449 vulnerability patch installed.
For technical details of the new MATA malware, a description of the malicious infrastructure used by the actor,
attribution and victimology read the full “Updated MATA attacks industrial companies in Eastern Europe” report.
3/3
