1/11
www.trendmicro.com
/en_us/research/23/i/earth-lusca-employs-new-linux-backdoor.html
Earth Lusca Employs New Linux Backdoor, Uses
Cobalt Strike for Lateral Movement
⋮ 9/18/2023
While monitoring Earth Lusca, we discovered an intriguing, encrypted file on the threat actor's server — a
Linux-based malware, which appears to originate from the open-source Windows backdoor Trochilus, which
we've dubbed SprySOCKS due to its swift behavior and SOCKS implementation.
By: Joseph C Chen, Jaromir Horejsi
September 18, 2023
Read time: 9 min (2356 words)
In early 2021, we published a research paper discussing the operation of a China-linked threat actor we
tracked as Earth Lusca. Since our initial research, the group has remained active and has even extended its
operations, targeting countries around the world during the first half of 2023.
While monitoring the group, we managed to obtain an interesting, encrypted file hosted on the threat actor’s
delivery server. We were able to find the original loader of the file on VirusTotal and successfully decrypted it.
Interestingly, the decrypted payload is a Linux-targeted backdoor that we have never seen before. The main
execution routine and its strings show that it originates from the open-source Windows backdoor Trochilus,
with several functions being re-implemented for Linux systems. We named this new Linux variant
2/11
SprySOCKS, referring to the swift behaviors of Trochilus and the new Socket Secure (SOCKS)
implementation inside the backdoor.
Analysis of the SprySOCKS backdoor reveals some interesting findings. The backdoor contains a marker
that refers to the backdoor’s version number. We have identified two SprySOCKS payloads that contain two
different version numbers, indicating that the backdoor is still under development. In addition, we noticed that
the implementation of the interactive shell is likely inspired from the Linux variant of the Derusbi malware.
Meanwhile, the structure of SprySOCKS’s command-and-control (C&C) protocol is similar to one used by the
RedLeaves backdoor, a remote access trojan (RAT) reported to be infecting Windows machines. It consists
of two components, the loader and the encrypted main payload. The loader is responsible for reading,
decrypting, and running the main payload.
Similar to the Windows version, the Linux variant analyzed in this report also consists of these two
components. Previously, it was reported that RedLeaves was also built upon the publicly available source
code of Trochilus.
So far, we have only observed SprySOCKS used by Earth Lusca. In this blog entry, we will provide more
context on Earth Lusca’s use of the malware, together with a thorough analysis of its components and
capabilities.
Recent Earth Lusca activity
Earth Lusca remained active during the first half of 2023, with its attacks focusing primarily on countries in
Southeast Asia, Central Asia, and the Balkans (with a few scattered attacks on Latin American and African
countries). The group’s main targets are government departments that are involved in foreign affairs,
technology, and telecommunications.
Earth Lusca is now aggressively targeting the public-facing servers of its victims. Furthermore, we have seen
them frequently exploiting server-based N-day vulnerabilities, including (but not limited to) the following:
Vulnerability
Description
CVE-2022-40684
An authentication bypass
vulnerability in Fortinet
FortiOS, FortiProxy and
FortiSwitchManager
CVE-2022-39952
An unauthenticated
remote code execution
(RCE) vulnerability in
Fortinet FortiNAC
CVE-2021-22205
An unauthenticated RCE
vulnerability in GitLab
CE/EE
CVE-2019-18935
An unauthenticated
remote code execution
3/11
vulnerability in Progress
Telerik UI for ASP.NET
AJAX
CVE-2019-9670 / CVE-2019-9621
A bundle of two
vulnerabilities for
unauthenticated RCE in
Zimbra Collaboration Suite
ProxyShell (CVE-2021-34473, CVE-2021-34523v, CVE-2021-31207)
A set of three chained
vulnerabilities that perform
unauthenticated RCE in
Microsoft Exchange
Table 1. The list of vulnerabilities exploited by Earth Lusca
Earth Lusca takes advantage of server vulnerabilities to infiltrate its victim’s networks, after which it will
deploy a web shell and install Cobalt Strike for lateral movement. The group intends to exfiltrate documents
and email account credentials, as well as to further deploy advanced backdoors like ShadowPad and the
Linux version of Winnti to conduct long-term espionage activities against its targets.
The “mandibule” loader component
At the beginning of our investigation, we observed a file named libmonitor.so.2 hosted on Earth Lusca’s
delivery server. Without previous context, this seemed to be a binary file containing only random bytes,
indicating that it is likely an encrypted payload. We used the unique file name to perform a search on
VirusTotal that allowed us to identify a related ELF file (SHA256:
65b27e84d9f22b41949e42e8c0b1e4b88c75211cbf94d5fd66edc4ebe21b7359) named “mkmon”. The ELF
file could be used to decrypt the libmonitor.so.2 file and recover its original payload, proving that “mkmon” is
the loader bundled with libmonitor.so.2.
The loader was not developed from scratch — its developer used a publicly available Linux ELF injector
called “mandibule” (the French word for mandible, or lower jaw). The original ELF injector project is a
command-line tool with the ability to inject a payload into itself (self-injection) or into another project. As a
typical command-line tool, it prints usage text that lists supported parameters. The original injector also prints
various debug messages to inform the user about the progress of the injection.
The threat actor used the mandibule project as a basis for its malware loader. The project creator removed
the usage screen and the ability to inject to other processes, and then added a function to load and decrypt
the second stage. We consider this job to be sloppily done since the developer did not bother to remove
debug messages, and the loader was not stripped (that is, it was distributed with debug symbols). Indeed,
the threat actor seemed to put minimum effort into modifying the original injector just to be able to make it
load the payload.
4/11
Figure 1. The loader distributed with debug information; note that the “.debug_*” sections are
present
Figure 2. The debug messages displayed when running the loader
The debug messages displayed in Figure 2 have two distinct markers. The “>” marker is from the original
mandibule project, while the “[+]” or “[-]” markers are debug messages added to the loader by the threat
actor.
The name of the loader’s process is set to “kworker/0:22” by the prctl command. Normally, kworker is a
placeholder process for kernel worker threads. In this scenario, however, the “kworker” name has nothing to
do with kernel worker threads. Instead, the loader abuses this name just to avoid suspicion when the user
lists all running tasks via commands such as ps or top.
Figure 3. The name of the process is set to “kworker/0:22”
5/11
Figure 4. The list of “kworker*” processes on an infected machine; the highlighted process is the
analyzed loader
The loader accepts two command-line parameters: the path to the encrypted second stage file and the self-
delete flag. The second stage is encrypted with an AES-ECB cipher, with the password being hard-coded in
the loader.
Figure 5. Function to decrypt the second stage
The loader is also responsible for setting the persistence. It copies itself and the encrypted second stage to
the /usr/sbin/ directory (see debug notes “[+] rename loader ok” and “[+] rename server ok”). It then uses
chkconfig or systemd to start the loader as a service. If the self-delete flag is set to “1”, then the originally
executed loader and the encrypted stage files are both deleted.
The SprySOCKS component
While examining the decrypted second stage, visible strings revealed that it was statically compiled with HP-
Socket project, a high-performance network framework of Chinese origin.
Figure 6. HP-Socket references among visible strings
Initialization procedure reveals a hard-coded AES-ECB password used for encrypting communication with
the C&C server.
6/11
Figure 7. AES password used for C&C communication
The C&C address and port are also hard-coded in the module, but they are not encrypted and are visible in
plain text.
Figure 8. C&C server and port configuration
C&C communication consists of packets sent via TCP (Transmission Control Protocol). The packet has a
header consisting of 0x12 bytes, followed by a base64-encoded, AES-ECB-encrypted message. Similar to
Table B-2 in this previous analysis of the RedLeaves malware, the header contains some random and hard-
coded values, plus the length of the payload (highlighted in blue in Figure 9).
Figure 9. Example of a packet sent from the victim’s machine to the C&C server
Figure 10. Fixed value of 0xACACBCBC; occurs in sent packets at offsets 4 – 7
The fixed value used in the original Trochilus is 0xAFAFBFBF, while in the RedLeaves variant it is
0xBFD9CBAE.
After decoding and decrypting the message, it reveals keywords such as “__handler”, “__msgid”, “__serial”,
and “clientid”. Some of these keywords can be found in Trochilus, but more importantly, these messages
closely resemble the RedLeaves communication protocol. 
Figure 11. Decoded and AES-ECB-decrypted message
7/11
The RAT implements several standard backdoor commands, including the collecting system information,
starting an interactive shell, listing network connections, creating SOCKS proxy, uploading and downloading
files, and other basic file operations (listing, deleting, renaming, and creating a directory). Table 2 shows
message IDs and the approximate descriptions of what functions the messages are related to.
Message ID
Notes
0x09
Gets machine information
0x0a
Starts interactive shell
0x0b
Writes data to interactive shell
0x0d
Stops interactive shell
0x0e
Lists network connections (parameters: “ip”, “port”,
“commName”, “connectType”)
0x0f
Sends packet (parameter: “target”)
0x14, 0x19
Sends initialization packet
0x16
Generates and sets clientid
0x17
Lists network connections (parameters: “tcp_port”,
“udp_port”, “http_port”, “listen_type”, “listen_port”)
0x23
Creates SOCKS proxy
0x24
Terminates SOCKS proxy
0x25
Forwards SOCKS proxy data
0x2a
Uploads file (parameters: “transfer_id”, “size”)
0x2b
Gets file transfer ID
0x2c
Downloads file (parameters: “state”, “transferId”,
“packageId”, “packageCount”, “file_size”)
0x2d
Gets transfer status (parameters: “state”,
“transferId”, “result”, “packageId”)
0x3c
Enumerates files in root /
0x3d
Enumerates files in directory
0x3e
Deletes file
0x3f
Creates directory
0x40
Renames file
0x41
No operation
0x42
Is related to operations 0x3c – 0x40 (srcPath,
destPath)
Table 2. List of handled messages and an explanation of their functions
8/11
Get machine information (CollectInfo)
The client information structure resembles the original CLIENT_INFO structure used by Trochilus, with some
parameters being the same for both Trochilus and the malware we were analyzing. It is also worth noting the
parameter “cpufrep”, which is likely a typo of “cpufreq” (CPU frequency).
Figure 12. CLIENT_INFO structure in “ClientInfoCallbacks.h,” which is the Trochilus RAT
Further down in ClientInfoManager.cpp, the Trochilus RAT, you can see the internal names of the
parameters from the CLIENT_INFO structure. Note that most of them have the same values as the listed
parameters in Table 2. Furthermore, “cn”, “ip”, “groups”, “vercode”, “priv”, “lang”, “mem”, “os”, “x64”, and
“cpufrep” are the same. 
9/11
Figure 13. The internal names of CLIENT_INFO parameters, as defined in
ClientInfoManager.cpp, the Trochilus RAT
Parameter
Command
Notes
cn
gethostname
Computer name
systemType
uname; cat /etc/issue; cat
/etc/redhat-release
 
systemVersion
uname; cat /etc/issue; cat
/etc/redhat-release
 
os
uname; cat /etc/issue; cat
/etc/redhat-release
 
mem
sysinfo; totalram
Total RAM in MiB
vercode
uname; cat /etc/issue; cat
/etc/redhat-release
OS version number
x64
uname; cat /etc/issue; cat
/etc/redhat-release
Determines whether the OS is 64-
bit
ip
getifaddrs
IP addresses except for localhost
groups
getuid
Group name
priv
getpwuid; pw_name
Privilege/Username
lang
echo $LANG
Language
languageStr
 
Language
cpunum
get_nprocs_conf
Number of processors
cpufrep (sic!)
cat /proc/cpuinfo|grep cpu\\
CPU frequency
10/11
MHz|sed -e ‘s/.*:[^0-9]//’
mods
No value
Installed modules according to the
comment on the Trochilus source
code
save_screen_dir
Constant value
1
reportTime
time
Current time
versionType
Constant value, refer as
backdoor type “Linux”
LIN
versionNumber
Constant value, refer as
backdoor version
1.3.6
Table 3. List of fields in the CLIENT_INFO structure of SprySOCKS
Interactive shell
When a client is requested to create an interactive terminal, it first interacts with the master endpoint for the
pseudo-terminal (PTY) subsystem (/dev/ptmx). Afterward, a new slave PTY is created with a unique device
node name in the /dev/pts directory.
After this, an execve command is launched with the parameter “[diskio]”, environment variables instructing it
not to save session history (HISTFILE=/dev/null), and prompt string (PS1) containing current username (u),
host name of machine (h), and working directory, which is (w) - (PS1=\\u@\\h:\\w \\$).
Figure 14. Creation of the interactive shell
When searching for the aforementioned strings, it’s possible to find a reference to YARA rules matching the
Linux version of Derusbi. It is likely that the threat actor gained inspiration from the techniques used by other
pieces of malware or possibly even had direct access to the Derusbi source code itself.
Client ID generator
The environment ID (client ID) consists of two components. The first part is the MAC address of the first
listed interface (the malware gets the first listed interface, but if this interface is "loopback interface", then this
interface is skipped and the next interface is considered) with a length of 6 bytes; this, when converted to a
hexadecimal string, has a length 12 bytes. The second part corresponds to processor features, returned by
11/11
the CPUID instruction called with the “CPUID_GETFEATURES” parameter. The length of the result is 8
bytes; when converted to a hexadecimal string, this has a length of 16 bytes. Thus, the generated client ID
has 14 bytes, and after its conversion to a hexadecimal string, it has 28 bytes.
Attribution
We observed the encrypted SprySOCKS payload hosted on the delivery server 207[.]148[.]75[.]122 in early
June 2023. The server, which was operated by the Earth Lusca threat actor, also delivered  executable files
of Cobalt Strike and the Linux version of Winnti to its targets.
The SprySOCKS payload contains a version number (1.3.6) and the C&C domain  lt76ux[.]confenos[.]shop.
We found another SprySOCKS payload uploaded by other users on VirusTotal with a version number of 1.1
and which connected to the C&C domain 2e6veme8xs[.]bmssystemg188[.]us. It’s worth noting that the
sibling domain rvxzn49eghqj[.]bmssystemg188[.]us resolved to 38[.]60[.]199[.]208, which overlapped with
793tggz7mw91[.]itcom666[.]live. The domain itcom666[.]live is a known C&C domain attributed to Earth
Lusca.
Conclusion
In this report, we discussed the new backdoor SprySOCKS used by Earth Lusca, which expands the group’s
Linux arsenal. Recently, the threat actor has been highly aggressive in targeting the public-facing servers of
its victims by exploiting known vulnerabilities.
It is important that organizations proactively manage their attack surface, minimizing the potential entry
points into their system and reducing the likelihood of a successful breach. Businesses should regularly
apply patches and update their tools, software, and systems to ensure their security, functionality, and overall
performance.
Cutting-edge and adaptable security solutions like Trend Micro XDR play a pivotal role in safeguarding
organizations against Earth Lusca and other threat actors. These technologies excel at gathering and
connecting activity data across various channels, from emails and endpoints to servers, cloud workloads,
and networks. This comprehensive approach empowers organizations with a high level of security detection
and investigation capabilities, setting it apart from conventional security solutions.
Indicators of Compromise (IOCs)
The indicators of compromise for this entry can be found here.
