1/7
blog.talosintelligence.com
/sneakychef-sugarghost-rat/
SneakyChef espionage group targets government
agencies with SugarGh0st and more infection
techniques
Chetan Raghuprasad ⋮ ⋮ 6/21/2024
By Chetan Raghuprasad, Ashley Shen
Friday, June 21, 2024 08:00
Threats
RAT
Cisco Talos recently discovered an ongoing campaign from SneakyChef, a newly discovered threat actor using
SugarGh0st malware, as early as August 2023.  
In the newly discovered campaign, we observed a wider scope of targets spread across countries in EMEA and
Asia, compared with previous observations that mainly targeted South Korea and Uzbekistan.   
SneakyChef uses lures that are scanned documents of government agencies, most of which are related to
various countries’ Ministries of Foreign Affairs or embassies. 
Beside the two infection chains disclosed by Talos in November, we discovered an additional infection chain
using SFX RAR files to deliver SugarGh0st.  
The language used in the SFX sample in this campaign reinforces our previous assertion that the actor is
Chinese speaking.   
Cisco Talos would like to thank the Yahoo! Paranoids Advanced Cyber Threats Team for their collaboration in this
investigation. 
SneakyChef actor profile 
In early August 2023, Talos discovered a campaign using the SugarGh0st RAT to target users in Uzbekistan and
South Korea. We continued to observe new activities using the same malware to target users in a wider geographical
location. Therefore, we created an actor profile for the group and dubbed them “SneakyChef.” 
Talos assesses with medium confidence that SneakyChef operators are likely Chinese-speaking based on their
language preferences, the usage of the variants of Gh0st RAT — a popular malware among various Chinese-
speaking actors — and the specific targets, which includes the Ministry of Foreign affairs of various countries and
other government entities. Talos also discovered another RAT dubbed “SpiceRAT” used in the campaign. Read the
corresponding research here.
2/7
Targets across EMEA and Asia 
Talos assess with low confidence that the following government agencies are the potential targets in this campaign
based on the contents of the decoy documents: 
Ministry of Foreign affairs of Angola 
Ministry of Fisheries and Marine Resources of Angola  
Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry of Angola 
Ministry of Foreign affairs of Turkmenistan 
Ministry of Foreign affairs of Kazakhstan 
Ministry of Foreign affairs of India 
Embassy of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia in Abu Dhabi 
Ministry of Foreign affairs of Latvia  
Most of the decoy documents we found in this campaign are scanned documents of government agencies, which do
not appear to be available on the internet. During our research, we observed and analyzed various decoy documents
with government-and research conference-themed lures in this campaign. We are sharing a few samples of the
decoy documents accordingly. 
Lures targeting Southern African countries 
The threat actor has used decoy documents impersonating the Ministry of Foreign affairs of Angola. The lure content
in one of the sample documents appeared to be a circular from the Angolan Ministry of Fisheries and Marine
3/7
Resources about a debt conciliation meeting between the ministry authority and a financial advisory company.  
Another document contained information about a legal decree concerning state or public assets and their disposal.
This document appealed to anyone interested in legal affairs and public heritage regimes and was addressed to the
Ministry of Foreign Affairs – MIREX, a centralized institution in Luanda. 
 
 
Lures targeting Central Asian countries 
The decoy documents used in the attacks likely targeting countries in Central Asia were either impersonating the
Ministry of Foreign affairs of Turkmenistan or Kazakhstan. One of the lures is related to a meeting organized with the
Turkmenistan embassy in Argentina and the heads of transportation and infrastructure of the Italian Republic.
Another document was a report of planned events and the government-issued list of priorities to be addressed in the
year 2024 that includes a formal proclamation-signing event between the Ministry of Defense of Uzbekistan and the
Ministry of Defense of Kazakhstan. 
 
 
 
Lures targeting Middle Eastern countries 
A decoy document we observed in the attack likely targeting Middle Eastern countries was an official circular
regarding the declaration of an official holiday for the Founding Day of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia.  
4/7
Lures targeting Southern Asian countries 
We found another sample that was likely used to target the Indian Ministry of Foreign Affairs. It has decoy documents,
including an Indian passport application form, along with a copy of an Aadhar card, a document that serves as proof
of identity in India.  
 
 
 
One of the decoy Word documents we observed contained lures related to India-U.S. relations, including a list of
events involving interactions between India’s prime minister and the U.S. president. 
5/7
Lures targeting European countries 
A decoy document found in a sample likely targeting the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Latvia was a circular
impersonating the Embassy of Lithuania. It contained a lure document regarding an announcement of an
ambassador’s absence and their replacement. 
Other targets 
Along with the government-themed decoy document samples we analyzed, we observed a few other samples from
these campaigns. These included decoys such as an application form to register for a conference run by the
Universal Research Cluster (URC) and a research paper abstract of the ICCSE international conference. We also
saw a few other decoys related to other conference invitations and details, including those for the Political Science
and International Relations conference.   
6/7
 
 
Recently, Proofpoint researchers reported a SugarGh0st campaign targeting an organization in the U.S. involved in
artificial intelligence across academia, the private technology sector, and government services, highlighting the wider
adoption of SugarGh0st RAT in targeting various business verticals. 
Threat actor continues to leverage old and new C2 domains 
After Talos’ initial disclosure of SugarGh0st campaign in November 2023, we are attributing the past attacks to the
newly named threat actor SneakyChef. Despite our disclosure, SneakyChef continued to use the C2 domain we
mentioned and deployed the new samples in the following months after our blog post. Most of the samples observed
in this campaign communicate with the C2 domain account[.]drive-google-com[.]tk, consistent with their previous
campaign. Based on Talos’ Umbrella records, resolutions to the C2 domain were still observed until mid-May.  
DNS requests for the SugarGh0st C2 domain. 
Talos also observed the new domain account[.]gommask[.]online, reported by Proofpoint as being used by
SugarGh0st. The domain was created in March 2024, and queries were observed through April 21.  
7/7
Infection chain abuse SFX RAR as the initial attack vector 
With Talos’ first reporting of the SugarGh0st campaign in November, we disclosed two infection chains that utilized a
malicious RAR with an LNK file, likely delivered via phishing email. In the newly observed campaign, in addition to the
old infection chains, we discovered a different technique from a few malicious RAR samples.  
The threat actor is using an SFX RAR as the initial vector in this attack. When a victim runs the executable, the SFX
script executes to drop a decoy document, DLL loader, encrypted SugarGh0st, and a malicious VB script into the
victim’s user profile temporary folder and executes the malicious VB script.  
The malicious VB script establishes persistence by writing the command to the registry key
UserInitMprLogonScript which executes when a user belonging to either a local workgroup or domain logs into
the system. 
Registry key 
Value 
HKCU\Environment\UserInitMprLogonScript  regsvr32.exe /s %temp%\update.dll 
When a user logs into the system, the command runs and launches the loader DLL “update.dll” using regsvr32.exe.
The loader reads the encrypted SugarGg0st RAT “authz.lib”, decrypts it and injects it into a process. This technique is
same as that of the SugarGh0st campaign disclosed by the Kazakhstan government in February. 

Indicators of Compromise 
Indicators of Compromise associated with this threat can be found here 
