1/5
www.microsoft.com
/en-us/security/blog/2023/07/11/storm-0978-attacks-reveal-financial-and-espionage-motives/
Storm-0978 attacks reveal financial and espionage motives
⋮ 7/11/2023
By	Microsoft Threat Intelligence
Microsoft has identified a phishing campaign conducted by the threat actor tracked as Storm-0978 targeting defense
and government entities in Europe and North America. The campaign involved the abuse of CVE-2023-36884, which
included a remote code execution vulnerability exploited before disclosure to Microsoft via Word documents, using
lures related to the Ukrainian World Congress.
Storm-0978 (DEV-0978; also referred to as RomCom, the name of their backdoor, by other vendors) is a
cybercriminal group based out of Russia, known to conduct opportunistic ransomware and extortion-only operations,
as well as targeted credential-gathering campaigns likely in support of intelligence operations. Storm-0978 operates,
develops, and distributes the RomCom backdoor. The actor also deploys the Underground ransomware, which is
closely related to the Industrial Spy ransomware first observed in the wild in May 2022. The actor’s latest campaign
detected in June 2023 involved abuse of CVE-2023-36884 to deliver a backdoor with similarities to RomCom.
Storm-0978 is known to target organizations with trojanized versions of popular legitimate software, leading to the
installation of RomCom. Storm-0978’s targeted operations have impacted government and military organizations
primarily in Ukraine, as well as organizations in Europe and North America potentially involved in Ukrainian affairs.
Identified ransomware attacks have impacted the telecommunications and finance industries, among others.
Microsoft 365 Defender detects multiple stages of Storm-0978 activity. Customers who use Microsoft Defender for
Office 365 are protected from attachments that attempt to exploit CVE-2023-36884. In addition, customers who use
Microsoft 365 Apps (Versions 2302 and later) are protected from exploitation of the vulnerability via Office.
Organizations who cannot take advantage of these protections can set the
FEATURE_BLOCK_CROSS_PROTOCOL_FILE_NAVIGATION registry key to avoid exploitation. More mitigation
recommendations are outlined in this blog.
Targeting
Storm-0978 has conducted phishing operations with lures related to Ukrainian political affairs and targeting military
and government bodies primarily in Europe. Based on the post-compromise activity identified by Microsoft, Storm-
0978 distributes backdoors to target organizations and may steal credentials to be used in later targeted operations.
The actor’s ransomware activity, in contrast, has been largely opportunistic in nature and entirely separate from
espionage-focused targets. Identified attacks have impacted the telecommunications and finance industries.
Tools and TTPs
Tools
2/5
Storm-0978 uses trojanized versions of popular, legitimate software, leading to the installation of RomCom, which
Microsoft assesses is developed by Storm-0978. Observed examples of trojanized software include Adobe products,
Advanced IP Scanner, Solarwinds Network Performance Monitor, Solarwinds Orion, KeePass, and Signal. To host
the trojanized installers for delivery, Storm-0978 typically registers malicious domains mimicking the legitimate
software (for example, the malicious domain advanced-ip-scaner[.]com).
In financially motivated attacks involving ransomware, Storm-0978 uses the Industrial Spy ransomware, a
ransomware strain first observed in the wild in May 2022, and the Underground ransomware. The actor has also used
the Trigona ransomware in at least one identified attack.
Additionally, based on attributed phishing activity, Storm-0978 has acquired exploits targeting zero-day vulnerabilities.
Identified exploit activity includes abuse of CVE-2023-36884, including a remote code execution vulnerability
exploited via Microsoft Word documents in June 2023, as well as abuse of vulnerabilities contributing to a security
feature bypass.
Ransomware activity
In known ransomware intrusions, Storm-0978 has accessed credentials by dumping password hashes from the
Security Account Manager (SAM) using the Windows registry. To access SAM, attackers must acquire SYSTEM-level
privileges. Microsoft Defender for Endpoint detects this type of activity with alerts such as Export of SAM registry
hive.
Storm-0978 has then used the Impacket framework’s SMBExec and WMIExec functionalities for lateral movement.
Microsoft has linked Storm-0978 to previous management of the Industrial Spy ransomware market and crypter.
However, since as early as July 2023, Storm-0978 began to use a ransomware variant called Underground, which
contains significant code overlaps with the Industrial Spy ransomware.
Figure 1. Storm-0978 ransom note references the “Underground team” and contains target-specific details of exfiltrated information
The code similarity between the two ransomware variants, as well as Storm-0978’s previous involvement in Industrial
Spy operations, may indicate that Underground is a rebranding of the Industrial Spy ransomware.
3/5
Figure 2. Underground ransomware .onion site
Espionage activity
Since late 2022, Microsoft has identified the following campaigns attributable to Storm-0978. Based on the post-
compromise activity and the nature of the targets, these operations were likely driven by espionage-related
motivations:
June 2023 – Storm-0978 conducted a phishing campaign containing a fake OneDrive loader to deliver a backdoor
with similarities to RomCom. The phishing emails were directed to defense and government entities in Europe and
North America, with lures related to the Ukrainian World Congress. These emails led to exploitation via the CVE-
2023-36884 vulnerability.
Microsoft Defender for Office 365 detected Storm-0978’s initial use of the exploit targeting CVE-2023-36884 in this
phishing activity. Additional recommendations specific to this vulnerability are detailed below.
Figure 3. Storm-0978 email uses Ukrainian World Congress and NATO themes
Figure 4. Storm-0978 lure document with Ukrainian World Congress and NATO content
4/5
Notably, during this campaign, Microsoft identified concurrent, separate Storm-0978 ransomware activity against an
unrelated target using the same initial payloads. The subsequent ransomware activity against a different victim profile
further emphasizes the distinct motivations observed in Storm-0978 attacks.
December 2022 – According to CERT-UA, Storm-0978 compromised a Ukrainian Ministry of Defense email account
to send phishing emails. Identified lure PDFs attached to emails contained links to a threat actor-controlled website
hosting information-stealing malware.
October 2022 – Storm-0978 created fake installer websites mimicking legitimate software and used them in phishing
campaigns. The actor targeted users at Ukrainian government and military
organizations to deliver RomCom and likely to obtain credentials of high-value targets.
Recommendations
Microsoft recommends the following mitigations to reduce the impact of activity associated with Storm-0978’s
operations.
Turn on cloud-delivered protection in Microsoft Defender Antivirus or the equivalent for your antivirus product to
cover rapidly evolving attacker tools and techniques. Cloud-based machine learning protections block a
majority of new and unknown variants.
Run EDR in block mode so that Microsoft Defender for Endpoint can block malicious artifacts, even when your
non-Microsoft antivirus doesn’t detect the threat or when Microsoft Defender Antivirus is running in passive
mode. EDR in block mode works behind the scenes to remediate malicious artifacts that are detected post-
breach.
Enable investigation and remediation in full automated mode to allow Microsoft Defender for Endpoint to take
immediate action on alerts to resolve breaches, significantly reducing alert volume.
Use Microsoft Defender for Office 365 for enhanced phishing protection and coverage against new threats and
polymorphic variants. Defender for Office 365 customers should ensure that Safe Attachments and Safe Links
protection is enabled for users with  Zero-hour Auto Purge (ZAP) to remove emails when a URL gets
weaponized post-delivery.
Microsoft 365 Defender customers can turn on attack surface reduction rules to prevent common attack
techniques used in ransomware attacks:
Block process creations originating from PsExec and WMI commands – Some organizations might
experience compatibility issues with this rule on certain server systems but should deploy it to other
systems to prevent lateral movement originating from PsExec and WMI, including Impacket’s WMIexec.
Block executable files from running unless they meet a prevalence, age, or trusted list criterion
Use advanced protection against ransomware
Block all Office applications from creating child processes
CVE-2023-36884 specific recommendations
Customers who use Microsoft Defender for Office 365 are protected from attachments that attempt to exploit
CVE-2023-36884.
In addition, customers who use Microsoft 365 Apps (Versions 2302 and later) are protected from exploitation of
the vulnerability via Office.
In current attack chains, the use of the Block all Office applications from creating child processes attack surface
reduction rule prevents the vulnerability from being exploited
Organizations who cannot take advantage of these protections can set the
FEATURE_BLOCK_CROSS_PROTOCOL_FILE_NAVIGATION registry key to avoid exploitation. 
No OS restart is required, but restarting the applications that have had the registry key added for them is
recommended in case the value was already queried and is cached.
Please note that while these registry settings would mitigate exploitation of this issue, it could affect
regular functionality for certain use cases related to these applications. For this reason, we suggest
testing. To disable the mitigation, delete the registry key or set it to “0”.
Figure 5. Screenshot of settings for the
FEATURE_BLOCK_CROSS_PROTOCOL_FILE_NAVIGATION key to prevent exploitation of
CVE-2023-36884
5/5
Detection details
Microsoft Defender for Office 365
Microsoft Defender for Office 365 customers are protected from attachments that attempt to exploit CVE-2023-36884.
Microsoft Defender Antivirus
Microsoft Defender Antivirus detects post-compromise components of this threat as the following malware:
Microsoft Defender for Endpoint
Alerts with the following titles in the security center can indicate threat activity on your network:
Emerging threat activity group Storm-0978 detected
Microsoft Sentinel
Microsoft Sentinel also has detection and threat hunting content that customers can use to detect the post
exploitation activity detailed in this blog in addition to Microsoft 365 Defender detections list above.
The following content can be used to identify activity described in this blog post:
References
Further reading
For the latest security research from the Microsoft Threat Intelligence community, check out the Microsoft Threat
Intelligence Blog: https://aka.ms/threatintelblog.
To get notified about new publications and to join discussions on social media, follow us on Twitter at
https://twitter.com/MsftSecIntel.
