1/15
ti.qianxin.com
/blog/articles/UTG-Q-003-Supply-Chain-Poisoning-of-7ZIP-on-the-Microsoft-App-Store-EN/
UTG-Q-003: Supply Chain Poisoning of 7ZIP on the Microsoft
App Store
返回 TI 主页
RESEARCH
数 据 驱 动 安 全
Overview
QiAnXin Threat Intelligence Center discovered an unusual behavior during routine endpoint operations,
where a process named WindowsPackageManagerServer, through complex operations, eventually
initiated the undetected Lumma Stealer. We promptly initiated an investigation and ultimately found the
corresponding malicious installation package on the Microsoft App Store, presenting itself as the Russian
version of the 7Zip software. Our tests confirmed that the official 7ZIP installation program was not
available on the Microsoft App Store. However, the malicious installation package would appear when
users searched for keywords related to "7z."
We immediately reported the situation to Microsoft, and as of now, the malicious software has been
removed from the Microsoft App Store. The timeline of the report is as follows:
2/15
Upon tracing, we found that this installation package first appeared in January 2023 and evaded
detection for almost a year. Internally, we named this group UTG-Q-003 and publicly disclosed the details
of the incident and IOCs to the open-source community for analysis and investigation by fellow security
vendors.
Attack Chain
It remains unclear how the attackers managed to upload the malicious installation package to the
Microsoft App Store. According to QiAnXin's big data platform, the earliest download of the 7z-soft
software occurred on March 17, 2023. The execution chain is as follows:
3/15
JPHP is an open-source project that uses the Java virtual machine to execute PHP code, compiling PHP
source code into Java bytecode and running it inside the JVM. This results in effective evasion of
detection. Attackers utilized the JPHP library function "jurl" to download subsequent payloads from a
remote server.
4/15
To maintain a prolonged evasion period, the attackers frequently updated payloads on their C2 server.
We observed 2~3 soft.exe files with different MD5 hashes being requested daily. The primary goal was to
steal various types of files, including txt, doc, rdp, key, wallet, seed, lnk, etc. The involved malware
families were Redline Malware, Lumma Stealer, and Amadey.
5/15
Based on VirusTotal data, we observed that 7z-soft.exe had alternative download methods besides being
delivered through the Microsoft App Store.
The mentioned URLs are currently inaccessible. However, historical data reveals that after requesting the
domain (“deputadojoaodaniel.com.br”), it redirected to a link hosted on cdn.discordapp.com.
Inspection of the historical HTML pages of both domains showed that they were WordPress websites,
indicating that UTG-Q-003 likely invaded WordPress sites and used them as a springboard to store
payloads and implement webpage redirection. This attack method is prevalent among Russian-speaking
groups.
In October, we detected a direct redirection from “analiticaderetail.com” to the “browserneedupdate.com”
page. Our analysis indicated another attack chain by the attackers, involving a social engineering attack
leveraging the Chrome browser's message push mechanism. The attack process is as follows:
6/15
Attackers have created a relatively realistic Cloudflare DDoS protection page, claiming that the domain is
currently under a DDoS attack. Subsequently, a fake human verification dialog appears, enticing victims
to click.
7/15
Upon clicking, a new page is launched, redirecting to the “brolink2s.site” domain and loading a JavaScript
(JS) script. The JS script primarily functions to display notifications and lure victims into clicking the allow
button.
8/15
Once the victim chooses “allow” option, the website is added to Chrome's push notification list, enabling
notifications applicable to every platform (MAC, Windows, Android).
9/15
Even if the victim's browser is closed, the attacker can still push relevant links through Windows
notifications. The push effect is illustrated as follows:
10/15
We have observed a total of 10 domains redirecting to “browserneedupdate.com” from October to the
present. The domain types include movie resource sites and software development, suggesting that in
the first stage of the attack, the attacker could deliver phishing emails inducing victims to enable message
notifications. By leveraging legitimate website invasions for redirection, they could bypass email gateway
detection. In the second stage, based on the target host's platform, the attacker can push customized
phishing links, enticing victims to download and open bait files. This social engineering method is more
credible than phishing emails prompting users to update software and is highly covert.
-
Domain
analiticaderetail.com
creatologics.com
www.50kmovie.com
linta.software
captionhost.net
www.bcca.kr
opwer.top
fms.net.br
leanbiome-leanbioome.com
zuripvp.tk
creatologics.com
In addition, UTG-Q-003 has also delivered installation packages of the following types, all based on the
JPHP framework.
11/15
12/15
Attribution and Impact
Based on telemetry data from QiAnXin Threat Intelligence Center, the number of downloads of this
installation package from the Microsoft App Store has significantly increased since August. We suspect it
may be related to the WinRAR vulnerability. Approximately four to five days after the public disclosure of
the EXP for CVE-2023-38831, APT groups from East Asia initiated phishing attacks on mainland China.
Some organizations may have requested employees to use compression software other than WinRAR.
Additionally, domestic search engines have been manipulated by SEO black hat groups, making it difficult
to find the official 7zip download site. Consequently, some users have to downloading 7zip from the
Microsoft App Store, leading to compromise.
13/15
This explains why negative reviews on a Russian malicious installation package are submitted by
Chinese users, which may seem ironic but reflects the current poor ecology of software downloads in
China.
14/15
The registration information for the domains used by the attackers is related to Russia and Ukraine, but
we cannot obtain information about foreign victims, especially in Russian-speaking regions. Therefore,
relevant attribution cannot be determined.
Conclusion
Currently, all products based on QiAnXin Threat Intelligence Center's threat intelligence data, including
QiAnXin Threat Intelligence Platform (TIP), Tianqing, Tianyan Advanced Threat Detection System,
QiAnXin NGSOC, QiAnXin Situational Awareness, etc., already support accurate detection of such
attacks.
15/15
IOC
For detailed IOC regarding UTG-Q-003, please refer to QiAnXin Threat Intelligence Center's RedDrip
Team Github [1].
Reference Link
[1]. https://github.com/RedDrip7/APT_Digital_Weapon/tree/master/UTG-Q-003
UTG-Q-003
7ZIP
SUPPLY CHAIN POISONING
分享到：
