Microsoft Threat Intelligence
Sophistication, scope, and scale: 
Digital threats from East 
Asia increase in breadth and 
effectiveness
August 8, 2023
01010100 01110010 01100101 
01101110 01100100 01110011 
00100000 01100110 01110010 
01101111 01101101 00100000 
01000011 01101000 01101001 
01101110 01100001 00100000 
01100001 01101110 01100100 
00100000 01001110 01101111 
01110010 01110100 01101000 
00100000 01001011 01101111 
01110010 01100101 01100001 
00100000
September 2023
Table of contents
3	 	 Introduction
6  Chinese influence operations
6  
CCP social media operations increase effective  
	
	
audience engagement
10  
Chinese IO expands global reach in several campaigns
4  Chinese cyber operations
17  Looking ahead
15  North Korean cyber operations
2
Microsoft Threat Intelligence
September 2023
First, Chinese state-affiliated cyber threat 
groups have shown particular focus on the 
South China Sea region, directing cyber 
espionage at governments and other 
critical entities that ring this maritime 
area. Meanwhile, China’s targeting of 
the US defense sector and probing of US 
infrastructure signals attempts to gain 
competitive advantages for China’s foreign 
relations and strategic military aims. 
Second, China has become more effective 
at engaging social media users with IO in 
the past year. Chinese online influence 
campaigns have long relied on sheer 
volume to reach users through networks 
of inauthentic social media accounts. 
Since 2022, however, China-aligned social 
media networks have engaged directly 
with authentic users on social media, 
targeted specific candidates in content 
about US elections, and posed as American 
voters. Separately, China’s state-affiliated 
multilingual social media influencer 
initiative has successfully engaged target 
audiences in at least 40 languages and 
grown its audience to over 103 million.
Third, China has continued to scale 
up its IO campaigns in the past year, 
expanding efforts to new languages 
and new platforms to increase its global 
footprint. On social media, campaigns 
deploy thousands of inauthentic accounts 
across dozens of websites, spreading 
memes, videos, and messages in multiple 
languages. In online news media, Chinese 
state media is tactful and effective in 
positioning itself as the authoritative voice 
on international discourse on China, using 
a variety of means to exert influence in 
media outlets worldwide. One campaign 
pushed Chinese Communist Party (CCP) 
propaganda via localized news websites 
aimed at the Chinese diaspora in more than 
35 countries. 
Finally, North Korea—which, unlike 
China, lacks capability as a sophisticated 
influence actor—remains a formidable 
cyber threat. North Korea has shown a 
continued interest in intelligence collection 
and increasing tactical sophistication by 
leveraging cascading supply chain attacks 
and cryptocurrency theft, among other 
tactics.
Several emerging trends illustrate a quickly changing threat landscape across East Asia,  
with China conducting both widespread cyber and influence operations (IO), and North Korean 
cyber threat actors demonstrating increased sophistication. 
Introduction
3
Microsoft Threat Intelligence
September 2023
Chinese state-affiliated threat actors show continued interest in the South China Sea and Taiwan, which 
reflects China’s wide range of economic, defense, and political interests in this region.1 Conflicting territorial 
claims, rising cross-Strait tensions, and an increased US military presence may all be motivations for China's 
offensive cyber activities.2 
Microsoft has tracked Raspberry Typhoon (RADIUM) as the primary threat group targeting nations that ring 
the South China Sea. Raspberry Typhoon consistently targets government ministries, military entities, and 
corporate entities connected to critical infrastructure, particularly telecoms. Since January 2023, Raspberry 
Typhoon has been particularly persistent. When targeting government ministries or infrastructure, Raspberry 
Typhoon typically conducts intelligence collection and malware execution. In many countries, targets vary 
from defense and intelligence-related ministries to economic and trade-related ministries.
Flax Typhoon (Storm-0919) is the most prominent threat group targeting the island of Taiwan. This group 
primarily targets telecommunications, education, information technology, and energy infrastructure, typically 
by leveraging a custom VPN appliance to directly establish a presence within the target network. Similarly, 
Charcoal Typhoon (CHROMIUM) targets Taiwanese education institutions, energy infrastructure, and high-
tech manufacturing. In 2023, both Charcoal Typhoon and Flax Typhoon targeted Taiwanese aerospace 
entities that contract with the Taiwanese military.
China's cyber operations renew focus on South China Sea and key industries in the United States
Since the beginning of 2023, Microsoft Threat Intelligence has identified three areas of particular focus for China-affiliated cyber threat 
actors: the South China Sea, the US defense industrial base, and US critical infrastructure.
Figure 1: Observed events per country in the South China Sea from January 2022 to April 2023.
Taiwan
Vietnam
South 
China Sea
Sulu Sea
Singapore
90+
40+
20+
<20
Malaysia
Indonesia
Brunei
Philippines
Chinese cyber operations
Chinese state-sponsored targeting mirrors 
strategic goals in the South China Sea
4
Microsoft Threat Intelligence
September 2023
China also targets its strategic partners
As China has grown its bilateral relations and global partnerships 
through the Belt and Road Initiative (BRI), Chinese state-affiliated 
threat actors have conducted parallel cyber operations against 
private and public entities around the world. China-based threat 
groups target countries that are in line with the CCP's BRI strategy, 
including entities in Kazakhstan, Namibia, Vietnam, and more.9 
Meanwhile, widespread Chinese threat activity consistently targets 
foreign ministries based throughout Europe, Latin America, and 
Asia—likely in pursuit of economic espionage or intelligence 
collection objectives.10 As China expands its global influence, 
affiliated threat groups’ activities are to follow. As recently as 
April 2023, Twill Typhoon (TANTALUM) successfully compromised 
government machines in Africa and Europe as well as humanitarian 
organizations worldwide. 
Multiple China-based threat groups continue to target the US 
defense industrial base, namely Circle Typhoon (DEV-0322), Volt 
Typhoon (DEV-0391), and Mulberry Typhoon (MANGANESE). 
While the targets of these three groups occasionally overlap, they 
are distinct actors with different infrastructure and capabilities.3 
Circle Typhoon conducts a wide range of cyber activity against 
the US defense industrial base including resource development, 
collection, initial access, and credential access. Circle Typhoon 
often leverages VPN appliances to target IT and US-based 
defense contractors. Volt Typhoon has also conducted 
reconnaissance against numerous US defense contractors. 
Guam is one of the most frequent targets of these campaigns, 
particularly the satellite communications and telecommunications 
entities housed there.4 
A frequent tactic of Volt Typhoon involves compromising small 
office and home routers, typically for the purpose of building 
infrastructure.5 Mulberry Typhoon has also targeted the US 
defense industrial base, most notably with a zero-day exploit 
targeting devices.6 Increased targeting of Guam is significant 
given its position as the closest US territory to East Asia and 
crucial to US strategy in the region.
Microsoft has observed Chinese state-affiliated threat groups 
targeting US critical infrastructure across multiple sectors and 
significant resource development over the last six months. Volt 
Typhoon has been the primary group behind this activity since at 
least the summer of 2021, and the extent of this activity is still not 
fully known. 
Targeted sectors include transportation (such as ports and 
rail), utilities (such as energy and water treatment), medical 
infrastructure (including hospitals), and telecommunications 
infrastructure (including satellite communications and fiber optic 
systems). Microsoft assesses that this campaign could provide 
China with capabilities to disrupt critical infrastructure and 
communications between the United States and Asia.7 
Chinese threat actors turn attention toward 
Guam as US builds a Marine Corps base
Chinese threat groups target US critical 
infrastructure
Beginning May 15, Storm-0558, a China-based threat actor, used 
forged authentication tokens to access Microsoft customer 
email accounts of approximately 25 organizations, including US 
and European government entities.8 Microsoft has successfully 
blocked this campaign. The objective of the attack was to obtain 
unauthorized access to email accounts. Microsoft assesses this 
activity was consistent with Storm-0558's espionage objectives. 
Storm-0558 has previously targeted US and European diplomatic 
entities.
China-based threat group targets approximately 
25 organizations including US government entities
5
Microsoft Threat Intelligence
September 2023
CCP-affiliated covert influence operations 
have now begun to successfully engage 
with target audiences on social media to a 
greater extent than previously observed, 
representing higher levels of sophistication 
and cultivation of online IO assets. Ahead 
of the 2022 US midterms, Microsoft and 
industry partners observed CCP-affiliated 
social media accounts impersonating US 
voters—new territory for CCP-affiliated IO.11 
These accounts posed as Americans across 
the political spectrum and responded to 
comments from authentic users. 
In both behavior and content, these accounts 
display many well-documented Chinese 
IO tactics, techniques, and procedures 
(TTPs). Examples include: accounts posting 
in Mandarin in their early stages before 
switching to another language, engaging 
with content from other China-aligned assets 
immediately after posting, and using a “seed 
and amplifier” pattern of interaction.12 Unlike 
earlier IO campaigns from CCP-affiliated 
actors that used easy-to-spot computer-
generated handles, display names and 
profile pictures,13 these more sophisticated 
accounts are operated by real people who 
employ fictitious or stolen identities to 
conceal the accounts’ affiliation with the CCP.
Social media accounts in this network show 
similar behavior to activity reportedly 
conducted by an elite group within the 
Ministry of Public Security (MPS) called the 
912 Special Working Group. According to 
the US Department of Justice, the group 
operated a social media troll farm that 
created thousands of fake online personas 
and pushed CCP propaganda targeting pro-
democracy activists.
Since approximately March 2023, some 
suspected Chinese IO assets on Western 
social media have begun to leverage 
generative artificial intelligence (AI) to 
create visual content. This relatively high-
quality visual content has already drawn 
higher levels of engagement from authentic 
social media users. These images bear the 
hallmarks of diffusion-powered image 
generation and are more eye-catching 
than awkward visual content in previous 
campaigns. Users have more frequently 
reposted these visuals, despite common 
indicators of AI-generation—for example, 
more than five fingers on a person’s hand.14
CCP-aligned social media operations increase effective audience engagement
Figure 2: A Black Lives Matter graphic first uploaded 
by a CCP-affiliated automated account was then 
uploaded by an account impersonating a US 
conservative voter seven hours later. 
Chinese influence operations
Figure 3: Example of an AI-generated image 
posted by a suspected Chinese IO asset. The Statue 
of Liberty's hand holding the torch has more than 
five fingers.
6
Microsoft Threat Intelligence
September 2023
Another strategy drawing meaningful engagement on 
social media is the CCP’s concept of “multilingual internet 
celebrity studios” (多语种网红工作室).15 Leveraging the 
power of authentic voices, more than 230 state media 
employees and affiliates masquerade as independent social 
media influencers across all major Western social media 
platforms.16 In 2022 and 2023, new influencers continue to 
debut every seven weeks on average. Recruited, trained, 
promoted, and funded by China Radio International (CRI) 
and other Chinese state media outfits, these influencers 
spread expertly localized CCP propaganda that achieves 
meaningful engagement with target audiences around the 
world, reaching a combined following of at least 103 million 
across multiple platforms speaking at least 40 languages.
The Chinese state media influencer initiative
Figure 4: This initiative comprises influencers that fall into four broad categories based on their backgrounds, target audiences, recruitment, and management strategies. 
All individuals included in our analysis have direct ties to Chinese state media (such as through employment, accepting travel invitations, or other monetary exchange). 
7
Microsoft Threat Intelligence
September 2023
Although influencers post mostly innocuous 
lifestyle content, this technique disguises 
CCP-aligned propaganda that seeks to soften 
China’s image abroad.
Chinese state media’s influencer recruitment strategy appears to 
enlist two distinct groups of individuals: those with experience 
working in journalism (at state media outlets specifically), and 
recent graduates of foreign language programs. In particular, China 
Media Group (the parent company of CRI and CGTN) appears to 
directly recruit graduates of top Chinese foreign language schools 
like Beijing Foreign Studies University and the Communication 
University of China. Those who are not directly recruited from 
universities are often former journalists and translators, who 
remove any explicit indicators of state media affiliation from their 
profiles after “rebranding” as influencers.
Figure 5: Lao-speaking influencer Song Siao posts a lifestyle vlog discussing 
China's economic recovery amidst the COVID-19 pandemic. In the self-filmed 
video, he visits a car dealership in Beijing and speaks with locals.
Figure 6: Techy Rachel, an English-language influencer who typically posts 
about Chinese innovations and technology, deviates from her content themes 
to weigh in on the Chinese spy balloon debate. Like other Chinese state media 
outlets, she denies that the balloon was used for espionage.
8
Microsoft Threat Intelligence
September 2023
Influencers reach worldwide audiences in at least 40 languages
The geographic distribution of languages spoken by these state-affiliated influencers represents China’s 
growing global influence and regional prioritization. Influencers speaking Asian languages excluding 
Chinese—such as Hindi, Sinhala, Pashto, Lao, Korean, Malay, and Vietnamese—comprise the largest 
number of influencers. English-speaking influencers make up the second-highest number of influencers. 
Asia
Europe
Africa
Middle 
East
Latin 
America
Spanish
5
Arabic
17
Persian
5
Turkish
6
Hebrew
9
Hausa
7
Swahili
3
French
14
Sinhala
6
Pashto
6
Lao
5
Vietnamese
5
Korean
4
Thai
4
Malay
4
Urdu
4
Tamil
3
Hindi
3
Burmese
4
Khmer
3
Other
10
Other
5
German
4
Russian
3
Esperanto
3
Greek
3
Italian
3
Czech
2
Portuguese
5
Influencers target seven audience spaces (language groupings) that are separated into geographic region. No charts shown for English or Chinese-language audience spaces.
China targeting audiences worldwide
Figure 7: Chinese state media influencers breakdown by language.
9
Microsoft Threat Intelligence
September 2023
Figure 9: High-volume shares of posts of a Taiwanese-language video calling on the Taiwanese government to “surrender” 
to Beijing. The large difference between impressions and shares is highly indicative of coordinated IO activity.
China further expanded the scale of its online IO in 2023 by 
reaching audiences in new languages and on new platforms. 
These operations combine a highly controlled overt state 
media apparatus with covert or obfuscated social media assets, 
including bots, that launder and amplify the CCP’s preferred 
narratives.17 
Microsoft observed one such CCP-aligned campaign, beginning 
in January 2022 and ongoing at the time of this writing, targeting 
Spanish non-governmental organization (NGO) Safeguard 
Defenders after it exposed the existence of more than 50 
overseas Chinese police stations.18 This campaign deployed more 
than 1,800 accounts across several social media platforms and 
dozens of websites to spread CCP-aligned memes, videos, and 
messages that criticized the United States and other democracies. 
These accounts messaged in new languages (Dutch, Greek, 
Indonesian, Swedish, Turkish, Uyghur, and more) and on new 
platforms (including Fandango, Rotten Tomatoes, Medium, 
Chess.com, and VK, among others). Despite the scale and 
persistence of this operation, its posts rarely garner meaningful 
engagement from authentic users, highlighting the rudimentary 
nature of these Chinese networks’ activity. 
Chinese IO expands global reach 
in several campaigns
1 Comment 10K Shares
1 Comment 1.5K Shares
Figure 8: CCP-aligned IO content has been detected on many platforms and in many languages.
Platforms
Languages
Croatian
Dutch
English
French
German
Greek
Indonesian
Italian
Mandarin
Norwegian
Slovak
Spanish
Swedish
Thai
Turkish
Uyghur
10
Microsoft Threat Intelligence
September 2023
Another digital media campaign that illustrates the 
expanded breadth of CCP-affiliated IO is a network 
of more than 50 predominately Chinese-language 
news websites that support the CCP’s stated goal 
of being the authoritative voice of all Chinese-
language media worldwide.19 Despite presenting as 
largely independent, unaffiliated websites catering 
to different Chinese diaspora communities around 
the globe, we assess with high confidence that these 
websites are affiliated with the CCP’s United Front 
Work Department (UFWD)—an organ responsible 
for strengthening the CCP’s influence beyond China’s 
borders: particularly by liaising with “overseas 
Chinese”—based on technical indicators, website 
registration information, and shared content.20 
Figure 10: Map of websites targeting the global Chinese diaspora that are assessed to be part of this media strategy. 
A veiled global network of 
CCP news websites
11
Microsoft Threat Intelligence
September 2023
Because many of these sites share IP addresses, 
querying domain resolutions with Microsoft 
Defender Threat Intelligence allowed us to discover 
more sites in the network. Many of the websites 
share front-end web HTML code, in which even 
the web developer comments embedded in the 
code are often identical across different websites. 
More than 30 of the sites leverage the same 
application programming interface (API) and 
content management system from a “wholly-
owned subsidiary” of China News Service (CNS), 
the UFWD’s media agency.21 Records from China’s 
Ministry of Industry and Information Technology 
further reveal that this UFWD-affiliated tech 
company and another have registered at least 14 
news sites in this network.22 By using subsidiaries 
and third-party media companies in this way, the 
UFWD can reach a global audience while obscuring 
its direct involvement.
These websites purport to be independent news 
providers while frequently republishing the same 
Chinese state media articles, often claiming to 
be the original source of the content. While the 
sites broadly cover international news and publish 
generic Chinese state media articles, politically 
sensitive subjects overwhelmingly align with the 
CCP’s preferred narratives. For example, several 
hundred articles within this network of websites 
promote false claims that the COVID-19 virus is 
a bioweapon manufactured at the US military 
biological research laboratory at Fort Detrick.23 Sites 
also frequently circulate statements from Chinese 
government officials and state media articles 
alleging the COVID-19 virus originated in the United 
States and not in China. These websites exemplify 
the extent to which CCP control has permeated the 
Chinese-language media environment, allowing 
the Party to drown out critical reporting of sensitive 
subjects.
Figure 11: Websites present as unique to locality but share identical content. This chord diagram 
shows overlapping articles published by multiple sites.
Figure 12: China News Service and other Chinese state media published an article titled “Statement from the WHO exposes dark US biolaboraties in Ukraine.” 
This article was then published across websites targeting audiences in Hungary, Sweden, West Africa, and Greece.
South Korea
South Asia
Italy
Germany
United Kingdom
France
Southeast Asia
Poland
South Africa
West Africa
Thailand
UAE
Malaysia
Pan Europe
12
Microsoft Threat Intelligence
September 2023
Figure 13: Organizational chart representing a snapshot of the functions and entities forming part of the CCP’s overt propaganda ecosystem. 
Chinese state 
media's global reach
While the campaign described above 
is notable for its obfuscation, bona fide 
Chinese state media websites account for the 
vast majority of global viewership of CCP-
directed media. By expanding into foreign 
languages,24 opening Chinese state media 
bureaus abroad,25 and supplying free Beijing-
friendly content,26 the CCP extends the reach 
of its “discourse power” (话语权) by injecting 
propaganda into the news media of countries 
around the world.27 
13
Microsoft Threat Intelligence
September 2023
Microsoft’s AI for Good Lab has developed an index to measure the flow of traffic from users outside China to outlets 
majority-owned by the Chinese government. The index measures the proportion of traffic visiting these sites to 
overall traffic on the internet, like the Russian Propaganda Index (RPI) introduced in June 2022.28 
Phoenix TV
ifeng.com
32%
People's Daily
people.com.cn
11%
Huanqiu
huanqiu.com 
7%
Xuexi Qiangguo 
xuexi.cn
5%
Five domains dominate consumption of Chinese 
state media, accounting for approximately 60% of 
all Chinese state media page views.
Measuring traffic to Chinese state media websites
The index can illuminate trends in the relative success of Chinese state media outlets by geography 
over time. For instance, among Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) member states, 
Singapore and Laos stand out with more than twice the relative traffic to Chinese state media 
websites as third-ranked Brunei. The Philippines ranks lowest, with 30x less traffic to Chinese state 
media websites than Singapore and Laos. In Singapore, where Mandarin is an official language, high 
consumption of Chinese state media reflects China’s influence on Mandarin-language news. In Laos, 
Chinese speakers number far fewer, which reflects the relative success of Chinese state media in the 
country’s environment. 
Figure 14: Homepage of the most visited domain, PhoenixTV, 
with 32% of all page views.
The Paper
thepaper.cn
4%
The above data is drawn from January to April 2023.  
People’s Daily (人民日报) is the official newspaper of 
the CCP's Central Committee.
Huanqiu (环球) is a state outlet under People's Daily.
Chinese government-owned Bauhinia Culture acquired 
a majority stake of Phoenix TV (凤凰卫视) in 2021.29
Xuexi Qiangguo (学习强国) is a website and application 
designed to promote "Xi Jinping Thought."30 
The Paper (澎湃新闻) is owned and run by state media 
company Shanghai United Media Group.31
14
Microsoft Threat Intelligence
September 2023
Increasingly sophisticated North Korean cyber operations collect intelligence and generate revenue for the state
North Korean cyber threat actors pursue cyber operations aiming to (1) collect intelligence on the activities of the state’s perceived adversaries: 
South Korea, the United States, and Japan, (2) collect intelligence on other countries’ military capabilities to improve their own, and (3) collect 
cryptocurrency funds for the state. Over the past year, Microsoft observed greater targeting overlaps among distinct North Korean threat actors 
and an increase in the sophistication of North Korean activity groups. 
North Korea’s cyber priorities emphasize  
maritime technology research amidst testing  
of underwater drones and vehicles 
Over the past year, Microsoft Threat Intelligence has observed 
greater targeting overlaps across North Korean threat 
actors. For example, three North Korean threat actors—Ruby 
Sleet (CERIUM), Diamond Sleet (ZINC), and Sapphire Sleet 
(COPERNICIUM)—targeted the maritime and shipbuilding 
sector from November 2022 to January 2023. Microsoft had 
not previously observed this level of targeting overlaps across 
multiple North Korean activity groups, suggesting that maritime 
technology research was a high priority for the North Korean 
government at the time. In March 2023, North Korea reportedly 
test-fired two strategic cruise missiles from a submarine towards 
the Sea of Japan (a.k.a. East Sea) as a warning ahead of the South 
Korea-US Freedom Shield military exercise. Later that month and 
the following, North Korea allegedly tested two Haeil underwater 
attack drones off the country’s east coast towards the Sea 
of Japan. These maritime military capabilities tests occurred 
shortly after three North Korean cyber groups targeted maritime 
defense entities for intelligence collection.
Threat actors compromise defense firms 
as North Korean regime sets high-priority 
collection requirements 
From November 2022 to January 2023, Microsoft 
observed a second instance of targeting overlaps, with 
Ruby Sleet and Diamond Sleet compromising defense 
firms. The two threat actors compromised two arms 
manufacturing companies based in Germany and Israel. 
This suggests that the North Korean government is 
assigning multiple threat actor groups at once to meet 
high-priority collection requirements to improve the 
country’s military capabilities. Since January 2023, 
Diamond Sleet has also compromised defense companies 
in Brazil, Czechia, Finland, Italy, Norway, and Poland.
Figure 15: North Korea targeting defense industry by country, from March 2022 to March 2023.
South Korea 9%
Israel 9%
Germany 9%
Ukraine 2%
Spain 2%
Ireland 2%
Indonesia 2%
Canada 2%
Belgium 2%
Türkiye 5%
Russia 9%
South Africa 7%
United States 7%
Brazil 5%
Czechia 5%
Finland 5%
India 5%
Italy 5%
Norway 5%
Poland 5%
North Korean cyber operations
North Korea's 
most targeted 
defense industries 
by country
15
Microsoft Threat Intelligence
September 2023
Russian government and defense industries 
remain targets for North Korea to conduct 
intelligence collection
Multiple North Korean threat actors have recently targeted the 
Russian government and defense industry, while simultaneously 
providing materiel support for Russia in its war in Ukraine.32 In 
March 2023, Ruby Sleet compromised an aerospace research 
institute in Russia. Additionally, Onyx Sleet (PLUTONIUM) 
compromised a device belonging to a university in Russia in early 
March. Separately, an attacker account attributed to Opal Sleet 
(OSMIUM) sent phishing emails to accounts belonging to Russian 
diplomatic government entities during the same month. North 
Korean threat actors may be capitalizing on the opportunity to 
conduct intelligence collection on Russian entities due to the 
country’s focus on its war in Ukraine. 
North Korean groups exhibit more sophisticated 
operations through cryptocurrency theft and 
supply chain attacks 
Microsoft assesses that North Korean activity groups are 
conducting increasingly sophisticated operations through 
cryptocurrency theft and supply chain attacks. In January 2023, 
the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) publicly attributed 
the June 2022 theft of $100 million in cryptocurrency from 
Harmony’s Horizon Bridge to Jade Sleet (DEV-0954), a.k.a. 
Lazarus Group/APT38.33 Furthermore, Microsoft attributed the 
March 2023 3CX supply chain attack that leveraged a prior 
supply chain compromise of a US-based financial technology 
company in 2022 to Citrine Sleet (DEV-0139). This was the first 
time Microsoft has observed an activity group using an existing 
supply chain compromise to conduct another supply chain 
attack, which demonstrates the increasing sophistication of 
North Korean cyber operations. 
Emerald Sleet deploys tried-and-true 
spearphishing tactic by luring experts into 
replying with foreign policy insights 
Emerald Sleet (THALLIUM) remains the most active North Korean 
threat actor Microsoft tracked over the past year. Emerald Sleet 
continues to send frequent spearphishing emails to Korean 
Peninsula experts around the world for intelligence collection 
purposes. In December 2022, Microsoft Threat Intelligence 
detailed Emerald Sleet’s phishing campaigns targeting influential 
North Korea experts in the United States and US-allied countries. 
Rather than deploying malicious files or links to malicious 
websites, Microsoft found that Emerald Sleet employs a unique 
tactic: impersonating reputable academic institutions and NGOs 
to lure victims into replying with expert insights and commentary 
about foreign policies related to North Korea. 
Capabilities: Influence 
North Korea has conducted limited influence operations on video-sharing social media platforms like 
YouTube and TikTok over the past year.34 North Korean influencers on YouTube are mostly girls and women, 
one as young as eleven years old, who post vlogs about their daily lives and promote positive narratives 
about the regime. Some of the influencers speak English in their videos, intending to reach a wider global 
audience. North Korea’s influencers are much less effective than the Chinese state media-backed influencer 
initiative.
16
Microsoft Threat Intelligence
September 2023
Looking ahead as geopolitical tensions charge cyber activity and influence operations
China has continued to expand its cyber capabilities in recent years and shown much more ambition in its IO 
campaigns. In the near term, North Korea is to remain focused on targets related to its political, economic, and defense 
interests in the region. We can expect wider cyber espionage against both opponents and supporters of the CCP’s 
geopolitical objectives on every continent. While China-based threat groups continue to develop and utilize impressive 
cyber capabilities, we have not observed China combine cyber and influence operations—unlike Iran and Russia, which 
engage in hack-and-leak campaigns. 
Operating at a scale unmatched by other malign influence actors, China-aligned influence actors 
are poised to capitalize on several key trends and events over the next six months. 
First, operations making use of video and visual 
media are becoming the norm. CCP-affiliated 
networks have long utilized AI-generated 
profile pictures, and this year have adopted AI-
generated art for visual memes. State-backed 
actors will also continue to tap private content 
studios and public relations firms to outsource 
propaganda on demand.35 
1
Second, China will continue to seek authentic 
audience engagement, investing time and resources 
into cultivated social media assets. Influencers 
with deep cultural and linguistic knowledge and 
high-quality video content have been pioneers for 
successful social media engagement. The CCP will 
apply some of these tactics, including interacting 
with social media users and demonstrating cultural 
know-how, to bolster its covert social media 
campaigns.
2
Third, Taiwan and the United States are likely 
to remain the top two priorities for Chinese IO, 
particularly with upcoming elections in both 
countries in 2024. Given that CCP-aligned influence 
actors have targeted US elections in the recent 
past, it is nearly certain that they will do so again. 
Social media assets impersonating US voters will 
likely demonstrate higher degrees of sophistication, 
actively sowing discord along racial, socioeconomic, 
and ideological lines with content that is fiercely 
critical of the United States.
3
Looking ahead
17
Microsoft Threat Intelligence
September 2023
1.	 cbsnews.com/news/china-us-philippines-military-bases-taiwan-tension-south-china-sea/; cfr.org/global-conflict-tracker/conflict/territorial-disputes-south-china-sea; 
www.state.gov/briefings-foreign-press-centers/chinas-maritime-claims-in-the-south-china-sea
2.	 New bases in the Philippines increase US military presence in the region, bbc.com/news/world-asia-64479712
3.	 At present there is insufficient evidence to tie the groups together.
4.	 wsj.com/articles/new-u-s-base-on-guam-is-aimed-at-deterring-china-11674731857
5.	 microsoft.com/en-us/security/blog/2023/05/24/volt-typhoon-targets-us-critical-infrastructure-with-living-off-the-land-techniques/
6.	 CVE-2022-27518; support.citrix.com/article/CTX474995/citrix-adc-and-citrix-gateway-security-bulletin-for-cve202227518; nvd.nist.gov/vuln/detail/CVE-2022-27518
7.	 microsoft.com/en-us/security/blog/2023/05/24/volt-typhoon-targets-us-critical-infrastructure-with-living-off-the-land-techniques/
8.	 microsoft.com/en-us/security/blog/2023/07/14/analysis-of-storm-0558-techniques-for-unauthorized-email-access/
9.	 query.prod.cms.rt.microsoft.com/cms/api/am/binary/RE5bUvv?culture=en-us&country=us
10.	microsoft.com/en-us/security/blog/2021/12/06/nickel-targeting-government-organizations-across-latin-america-and-europe/
11.	 about.fb.com/news/2022/09/removing-coordinated-inauthentic-behavior-from-china-and-russia/; foreignpolicy.com/2022/11/04/china-us-midterm-election-
interference-meddling-social-media-cybersecurity-disinformation/; apnews.com/article/russia-ukraine-business-north-korea-e6a068d91bc9828ecadfb67c929a4162
12.	 miburo.substack.com/i/45539420/seeds-and-sprout
13.	 public-assets.graphika.com/reports/graphika_report_spamouflage_goes_to_america.pdf
14.	washingtonpost.com/technology/2023/03/26/ai-generated-hands-midjourney/
15.	 archive.ph/QXvtw
16.	miburo.substack.com/p/csm-influencer-ops-1; miburo.substack.com/p/chinese-state-medias-global-influencer; These statistics reflect data as of April 2023. 
17.	 miburo.substack.com/p/spamouflage-survives; iri.org/wp-content/uploads/legacy/iri.org/detecting_digital_fingerprints__tracing_chinese_disinformation_in_taiwan_0.
pdf; Such influence actors are sometimes known as “Spamouflage Dragon” or “DRAGONBRIDGE”.
18.	safeguarddefenders.com/en/blog/230000-policing-expands; safeguarddefenders.com/en/blog/patrol-and-persuade-follow-110-overseas-investigation
19.	 web.archive.org/web/20200527103611/media.people.com.cn/GB/40606/6198886.html
20.	See: The Microsoft Threat Analysis Center’s framework for determining influence attributions. blogs.microsoft.com/wp-content/uploads/prod/sites/5/2023/02/
DTAC-Attribution-Framework.pdf; The Chinese diaspora is commonly referred to as “overseas Chinese” or 华侨 (huaqiao) by the Chinese government, referring to 
those with Chinese citizenship or heritage who reside outside of the PRC. For more detail on Beijing’s interpretation of the Chinese diaspora, see: www.jstor.org/
stable/26492596.
21.	archive.ph/GWW0D
22.	archive.is/oAn4j
23.	The Chinese government seeded this narrative at the beginning of the COVID-19 pandemic, see: apnews.com/article/pandemics-beijing-only-on-ap-epidemics-
media-122b73e134b780919cc1808f3f6f16e8. Websites within this network that promote this claim include: archive.ph/ueq4R; archive.ph/5DLGc; archive.ph/xmp6W. 
24.	economist.com/china/2018/06/14/china-is-spending-billions-on-its-foreign-language-media
25.	foreignpolicy.com/2023/03/16/china-propaganda-africa-soft-power/
26.	freedomhouse.org/report/beijing-global-media-influence/2022/authoritarian-expansion-power-democratic-resilience
27.	digichina.stanford.edu/work/lexicon-discourse-power-or-the-right-to-speak-huayu-quan/
28.	Defending Ukraine: Early Lessons from the Cyber War, query.prod.cms.rt.microsoft.com/cms/api/am/binary/RE50KOK
29.	web.archive.org/web/20210525192516/www.scmp.com/business/companies/article/3130027/phoenix-media-founder-sells-almost-all-his-shares-beijing-backed
30.	Another interpretation of xuexi qiangguo is “Study Xi, Strengthen the Country.” The name is a pun on Xi Jinping’s family name. Governments, universities, and 
businesses in China strongly promote the use of the app, at times shaming or punishing subordinates for infrequent use, see: nytimes.com/2019/04/07/world/asia/
china-xi-jinping-study-the-great-nation-app.html
31.	The Paper is owned by Shanghai United Media Group, which is in turn owned by the Shanghai Communist Party Committee: nytimes.com/2016/04/06/business/
international/china-media-the-paper-english.html
32.	apnews.com/article/russia-ukraine-business-north-korea-e6a068d91bc9828ecadfb67c929a4162
33.	fbi.gov/news/press-releases/fbi-confirms-lazarus-group-cyber-actors-responsible-for-harmonys-horizon-bridge-currency-theft
34.	edition.cnn.com/2023/02/04/asia/north-korea-youtuber-yumi-intl-hnk-dst; tiktok.com/@viceworldnews/video/7190073973739179269
35.	The CCP has previously invested in private sector companies that aid IO campaigns via SEO manipulation techniques, fake likes and followers, and other services. 
Procurement documents reveal such bids, see: www.nytimes.com/interactive/2021/12/20/technology/china-facebook-twitter-influence-manipulation.html
18
Microsoft Threat Intelligence
September 2023
