1/13
www.mandiant.com
/resources/blog/gru-disruptive-playbook
The GRU's Disruptive Playbook
Key Judgments 
Since last February's invasion, Mandiant has tracked Russian military intelligence (GRU) disruptive
operations against Ukraine adhering to a standard five-phase playbook.
Mandiant assesses with moderate confidence that this standard concept of operations represents a
deliberate effort to increase the speed, scale, and intensity at which the GRU can conduct offensive
cyber operations, while minimizing the odds of detection. 
The tactical and strategic benefits the playbook affords are likely tailored for a fast-paced and
highly contested operating environment. We judge this operational approach may be mirrored in
future crises and conflict scenarios where requirements to support high volumes of disruptive cyber
operations are present. 
Summary
On February 24, 2022, Russia invaded Ukraine with troops massed on the border of the two countries
that had been building since the previous fall. As Mandiant has detailed previously in reports such as M-
Trends 2023 and other resources available in our Ukraine Crisis Resource Center, we have tracked
Russian cyber operations against Ukraine both leading up to and following the invasion. We categorize
these operations stretching back before the start of the war on February 24, 2022, into six phases,
spanning access operations, cyber espionage, waves of disruptive attacks, and information operations.
2/13
Figure 1: Phases of Russian Cyber Operations during the war in Ukraine
Although there has been a significant focus on the sheer volume of wiper activity and the perception of
“success” of these disruptive operations, there is more to the story of Russian military intelligence (GRU)
disruptive operations than just wipers. We have observed the same five components being executed
across the disruptive operations in Ukraine, combining the GRU’s cyber and information operations into a
unified wartime capability. To equip defenders with knowledge of this standard operational approach, we
have outlined the GRU’s disruptive playbook, which expands on the patterns of tactical and strategic
behavior Mandiant has observed. To demonstrate the playbook in action, we examine a UNC3810
operation targeting a Ukrainian government entity with CADDYWIPER that took place in the fifth phase of
the war, a renewed campaign of disruptive attacks at the end of 2022.
Overview: The GRU’s Disruptive Playbook 
Since Russia’s invasion of Ukraine, Mandiant Intelligence has observed the GRU operate a standard,
repeatable playbook to pursue its information confrontation objectives. The persistent use of this
playbook through the six phases of Russia’s war has indicated its high adaptability across a range of
different operational contexts, targets, and over 15 different destructive malware variants. The playbook
has also proved highly survivable and resilient to detection and technical countermeasures, allowing the
3/13
GRU to adhere to a common set of tactics, techniques and procedures (TTPs) despite an extended
period of aggressive, high tempo operational use. Mandiant has observed the playbook in use by multiple
distinct Russian threat clusters throughout the war, indicating its central role in standardizing operations
across multiple subteams in an attempt to deliver more repeatable, consistent effects.
Figure 2: The GRU’s Disruptive Playbook
Across the incidents Mandiant has responded to, we have seen suspected GRU threat clusters generally
adhere to the following five operational phases:
1. Living on the Edge: Leveraging hard-to-detect compromised edge infrastructure such as routers,
VPNs, firewalls, and mail servers to gain and regain initial access into targets. 
2. Living off the Land: Using built-in tools such as operating system components or pre-installed
software for reconnaissance, lateral movement and information theft on target networks, likely
aiming to limit their malware footprint and evade detection.
3. Going for the GPO: Creating persistent, privileged access from which wipers can be deployed via
group policy objects (GPO) using a tried-and-true PowerShell script. 
4. Disrupt and Deny: Deploying “pure” wipers and other low-equity disruptive tools such as
ransomware to fit a variety of contexts and scenarios.
5. Telegraphing “Success”: Amplifying the narrative of successful disruption via a series of
hacktivist personas on Telegram, regardless of the actual impact of the operation.
4/13
Figure 3: Overlay of Phases of GRU’s Disruptive Playbook with Mandiant Attack Lifecycle
Mandiant assesses with moderate confidence that this standard concept of operations highly likely
represents a deliberate effort to increase the speed, scale, and intensity at which the GRU could conduct
offensive cyber operations while minimizing the odds of detection. The benefits the playbook affords are
notably suited for a fast-paced and highly contested operating environment, indicating that Russia’s
wartime goals have likely guided the GRU’s chosen tactical courses of action. While other options have
existed at each stage of the playbook, the GRU has opted for the same tradecraft repeatedly. We
anticipate that similar operational approaches, or “playbooks”, may be mirrored in future crises and
conflict scenarios where requirements to support high volumes of disruptive cyber operations are present.
Table 1: Outline of Tactical & Strategic Benefits in Phases of the Playbook
Phase
Assessed Tactical Benefits
Assessed Strategic Benefits 
Living on
the Edge
Challenging to defend & difficult
to detect 
Foothold for lateral movement
Scalable across different targets
Maintain access after disruption 
Generalize tactics for common enterprise
technologies
Living off
the Land
Avoid detection
Does not expose sensitive tooling 
Does not require resources to build
custom tools or utilities
Generalize toolset for common
enterprise operating systems
Going for
the GPO
Privileged lateral movement
and execution
Can be used to impair defenses
Maximizes disruptive effect across a
domain
Limit spillover potential
Disrupt and
Deny
Seamlessly integrate new
disruptive tools when required 
Sometimes erases attacker
presence
Generate immediate disruptive effect to
key information resources
Create perceptions of insecurity
Feigned extortion for additional
psychological effect
Telegraph
“Success”
Generate second-order
psychological effects 
Prime the information space
Generate perception of success
Reinforce perception of popular support
for war via “hacktivist” personas
5/13
The GRU’s disruptive playbook has sought to integrate the full spectrum of information confrontation
(Информационное противоборство) capabilities that Russia conceptually defines as cryptographic
reconnaissance of information and communication systems (KRIKS), information-technical effects (ITV),
and information-influence effects (IPV). While these concepts generally map to what the threat
intelligence community commonly refers to as access operations and their follow-on espionage, attack,
and influence missions, it is important to understand how Russia defines these concepts and seeks to
incorporate the different components of its cyber program in its own terms. A particular feature of the
playbook, and more generally of the GRU's information confrontation over the years, has been its
emphasis on the information-psychological effects from its cyber operations, which we judge has driven
its overarching focus of its disruptive operations on Ukrainian government and civilian critical
infrastructure.
Figure 4: Information confrontation doctrine components driving the GRU’s Disruptive Playbook
The Playbook in Practice: UNC3810’s Information Confrontation 
UNC3810 is one of the primary threat groups that Mandiant has observed executing the GRU’s disruptive
playbook in practice. UNC3810 has conducted espionage and disruptive operations against Ukrainian
entities since the onset of Russia’s invasion, as well as credential theft operations against a wide variety
of global public and private industry organizations. Though UNC3810 has balanced competing priorities
of espionage and disruption over the course of the war, this case focuses on the group’s disruptive
operations. 
Living on the Edge
Russian wartime cyber campaigns in Ukraine have depended on the GRU’s ability to balance priorities
for espionage and disruption, thus heavily relying on “living on the edge” of target networks via edge
infrastructure. Edge infrastructure is any infrastructure facing the public internet, including firewalls, mail
servers, and routers that can be used flexibly for a variety of operational objectives. Edge infrastructure
6/13
compromise has generally occurred in the early stages of the attack lifecycle, but also takes place later,
such as in the case of compromise of internal routers. 
In our case study operation, UNC3810 first gained initial access to the target environment in late July
2022, likely via a VPN compromise. After gaining initial access from the edge, UNC3810 accessed
several Linux servers and dropped webshell backdoors to establish redundant points of access and
further their access to the victim’s network. 
Living off the Land
To move off the edge and deeper into target networks, GRU operations have relied upon living off the
land tactics, exploiting tools already available in the victim environment such as operating system
components and installed software. Commonly used UNC3810 post-compromise utilities include
PowerShell, wmiexec, PortProxy, Impacket, and Chisel.
In this specific case, upon establishing a foothold on the Linux servers with an unknown webshell, the
operators then attempted to execute GOGETTER, a custom TCP tunneling tool written in Go. UNC3810
timestomped the binary to match modification dates of similarly named binaries in the same directory, an
attempt to masquerade as legitimate software. UNC3810 then executed GOGETTER as a scheduled
service with a systemd service script. 
/usr/bin/system-sockets 
GOGETTER 
Executed by systemd service
Additionally, UNC3810 likely attempted to modify packet filtering rules, as seen by the attempt at
executing iptables-restore. However, the actors misspelled the command as “iptables-restor” several
times. The combination of these tools gave the actors persistent access and opportunity for lateral
movement across the network environment over a three month period.
Going for the GPO
GRU operators manage to persist, escalate privileges, and deploy wipers through TANKTRAP, a script
used to create Group Policy Objects (GPOs) to deploy a disruptive payload. GPOs define the settings for
the Active Directory environment, which makes GPO abuse particularly powerful. Though GPO addition
and/or modification of default GPOs often requires the actor to have the highest level of permissions, it
may allow an actor to download additional files and create services and scheduled tasks which will be
executed across all Active Directory domain-linked systems.
In the case of UNC3810’s October intrusion, the actor changed default GPOs to deploy CADDYWIPER
on all systems joined to the Active Directory domains of the target network. To do so, UNC3810 likely
leveraged TANKTRAP, a modified PowerShell utility found on Github called PowerGPOAbuse.
TANKTRAP is a staple in the GRU’s disruptive playbook, and has been used by UNC3810 to deliver and
execute a variety of different disruptive tools across its operations via GPO.
7/13
Figure 5: PowerGPOAbuse PowerShell Script on GitHub
Upon execution, TANKTRAP creates two group policy preference files:
Files.xml
Retrieves CADDYWIPER from the domain controller
Scheduledtasks.xml
Creates a scheduled task to execute CADDYWIPER
UNC3810 modified GPOs to launch a scheduled task across the domain which would execute
CADDYWIPER for a disruptive effect.
Disrupt and Deny
GRU operations on a targeted host machine frequently end with the deployment of wipers or other
disruptive tooling. These disruptive operations hold the potential to cause immediate impact to targeted
8/13
organizations and sometimes erase evidence of attacker presence.
CADDYWIPER is a wiper that Mandiant first identified and reported on in March 2022, and has become
the GRU’s most frequently deployed disruptive tool in Ukraine that we have observed. The malware
enumerates the file system's physical drives and overwrites both file content and partitions with null
bytes. CADDYWIPER has also notably been deployed alongside other disruptive tools, such as
INDUSTROYER.V2, indicating the wiper’s perceived versatility to its operators. 
Mandiant and others, including Microsoft, ESET, and CERT UA, have identified multiple variants of
CADDYWIPER over time, including x64, x86, and shellcode variants. The GRU has continuously refined
CADDYWIPER since its first use in March 2022, iteratively making the wiper more lightweight and
flexible, though we continue to see operator error in the malware's deployment. Though these changes
may have been necessary tactical evolutions to avoid detection and containment by antivirus products, it
is possible they reflect non-tactical considerations as well, such as resource and personnel shortfalls,
more direct access to CADDYWIPER's codebase (as evidenced by compile times close to operational
use), or top-down pressures to speed up operations.
On 3 October 2022 at 07:34 UTC, UNC3810 staged the initial CADDYWIPER sample.
Caclcly.exe 
CADDYWIPER x64 variant 
Compile time: 2022/09/18 10:17:23
A local antivirus client blocked the initial execution of CADDYWIPER during this operation, after which
UNC3810 re-compiled and dropped a x32 CADDYWIPER variant to the target network, but did not
configure any GPO to execute the variant via scheduled task. The attacker additionally attempted to
exclude the file from antivirus scans. Mandiant assesses the x32 variant was likely successfully executed.
Caclclx.exe 
CADDYWIPER x32 variant
Compile time: 2022/10/03 10:01:48
Due to incompatible GPO configuration settings with the target system’s OS versions and the fact that the
initial CADDYWIPER variant was only compiled to run on x64 operating systems, the impact of this
disruptive operation was extremely limited. An obvious lack of preparation and reconnaissance on the
target systems combined with proactive choices made by network defenders prevented UNC3810 from
creating a significant disruptive impact in this operation. 
Telegraphing “Success”
Disruptive operations rarely make headlines by themselves because their effects are not visible to the
public, unless victim organizations choose to publicize the attack. To overcome this dilemma, the GRU
has used a series of Telegram channels assuming hacktivist identities to claim responsibility for cyber
attacks and leak stolen documents or other proofs from their victims. We assess this tactic is almost
certainly an attempt to prime the information space with narratives of popular support for Russia’s war
and to generate second-order psychological effects from the GRU’s network attacks. Follow-on influence
efforts tend to exaggerate the success of the preceding cyber components and are carried out
9/13
irrespective of the cyber operation's actual impact. Telegram has been the primary platform for these
efforts, as channels on the social media platform have become the go-to source for unfiltered footage and
updates from the war. 
In the final stage of the playbook, data from the victim of UNC3810’s wiper attack was staged and
advertised on Telegram by “CyberArmyofRussia_Reborn”, a self-proclaimed hacktivist persona that
claimed responsibility for the wiper attack. However, technical artifacts from the UNC3810’s intrusion
indicate that the “CyberArmyofRussia_Reborn”  persona severely exaggerated the success of the wiper
attack. Due to a series of operator errors, UNC3810 was unable to complete the wiper attack before the
Telegram post boasting of the disrupted network. Instead, the Telegram post preceded CADDYWIPER’s
execution by 35 minutes, undermining CyberArmyofRussia_Reborn’s repeated claims of independence
from the GRU. Based on the close sequencing between the wiper deployment and Telegram posts,
Mandiant assesses with high confidence that UNC3810 and Cyber Army of Russia engaged in forward
operational planning to orchestrate the cyber and information operations components of the operation.
Figure 6: Timeline of UNC3810’s CADDYWIPER and CyberArmyofRussia_Reborn’s Telegram
activity
Repeat Offenders: Past is Prologue for Russia’s Disruptive
Playbook 
The individual components of the GRU’s wartime playbook have clear roots in its historical patterns of
information confrontation. The component TTPs, such as the targeting of edge infrastructure, limiting the
overall footprint on victim networks and hosts through living off the land techniques, disruptive tools
disguised as ransomware, and the increasing use of intermediary or disposable tooling, have become
fundamental components of GRU cyber operations over the years. What is different is the full-scale
integration of these capabilities into a unified, repeatable playbook that has likely been tailored for use in
Russia’s invasion of Ukraine. 
A Shift to “Pure” Disruptive Tools
Following in the footsteps of its historical destructive campaigns, Russia has continued to operate a
range of disruptive malware variants to include wipers, ransomware, and industrial control system (ICS)
specific capabilities. While the general intent behind these tools — to irreversibly destroy data and disrupt
10/13
the ability of target systems to function as intended — is similar, the design of the disruptive malware the
GRU has chosen to use during the war is substantively different.
Figure 7: Pure vs. multifunctional disruptive tooling
Since Russia’s invasion, the GRU has overwhelmingly opted to deploy what we call “pure” disruptive
tools. This category of disruptive tooling is lightweight in design and primed for immediate use, containing
only the capabilities required to disrupt or deny access to the target system. The generic design has
made them disposable and functionally interchangeable, allowing the GRU to integrate new or modified
tools into the wider playbook in a plug-and-play fashion to be deployed via GPOs. As an added
operational benefit, disruptive tooling of this nature is freestanding, allowing operators to maintain
minimal presence in the victim network and conceal the chosen malware variant until moments before its
use. 
This preference contrasts significantly with the GRU’s historical preference for “multifunctional'' disruptive
tools that have been more complex, multi-stage or modular in design, and have contained added
capabilities to carry out further objectives such as system reconnaissance, information theft, propagation
to additional systems, or remote command and control. This category of disruptive tool is almost certainly
more time and resource intensive to tailor and preposition, and at higher risk of detection, likely limiting
the overall speed and scale at which they could have been used to achieve operational objectives. 
Within this approach, the GRU has also continued to use disruptive tooling disguised as ransomware,
including commercially sourced ransomware variants. Using ransomware highly likely serves the dual
purpose of temporarily misdirecting attribution efforts and amplifying the psychological aspect of the
operation, either through the ransom notes itself or via dark web forums or leak sites where feigned
extortion attempts are often carried out. By incorporating commercially available ransomware and wipers
derived from common software and utilities, we believe that the GRU has likely been able to more rapidly
replenish its arsenal with new, undetected disruptive tools than it could have by developing them in-
house.
11/13
Figure 8: Known instances of GRU destructive cyber tool use categorized
Integrating Hacktivist Identities Into Disruptive Operations
The GRU’s past tendency to exploit the identities and symbols of noteworthy political actors and
hacktivist identities has taken a central role in its disruptive playbook. Extending back to at least 2014 and
its original invasion of Ukraine, Mandiant has tracked what we assess as personas linked to GRU
intrusion sets falsely assuming the identities of anonymous political and hacktivist groups in order to
misdirect attribution and generate second-order psychological effects from their cyber operations.
CyberBerkut: Between 2014 and 2018, the GRU assumed the identity of Ukraine’s dissolved
special police force "Berkut" (Беркут) to conduct targeted leaks, website defacements, and
distributed denial of service (DDoS) attacks against Ukrainian and NATO government and military
organizations. Notably, the group attempted to crowdsource support for DDoS attacks by calling for
supporters to voluntarily install malware on their machines that would aid CyberBerkut's DDoS
activity.
CyberCaliphate: In 2015, the GRU used the CyberCaliphate persona (mirroring the pre-existing
online persona used by the terrorist group ISIS) as a false front to claim responsibility for the
network disruption of TV5Monde and a series of social media account compromises, website
defacements, and leaks targeting Western media and military organizations.
Yemeni Cyber Army: In 2015, the GRU likely co-opted the identity of a pre-existing anonymous
hacktivist group “Yemen Cyber Army'' (the GRU fork being distinct in its use of “Yemeni”). The
persona claimed to be a grassroots youth group responsible for stealing a cache of stolen
documents allegedly given to WikiLeaks in response to Saudi Arabia’s role in Yemen’s civil war. 
Guccifer 2.0: In 2016, the GRU referenced the identity of the jailed Romanian hacker “Guccifer” to
leak stolen and forged documents from the Democratic National Committee (DNC) as part of efforts
to influence the 2016 U.S. presidential election. 
AnPoland: In 2016, the GRU leaked stolen documents and conducted website defacements and
DDoS attacks against the World Anti-Doping Agency (WADA) and the Court of Arbitration for Sport
(CAS) under the false auspices of the hacktivist group Anonymous Poland, mimicking the real
hacktivist group Anonymous. 
12/13
Fancy Bears’ Hack Team:  Between 2016 and 2018, the GRU used a false hacktivist persona to
conduct a sustained influence campaign against organizations associated with the Olympic Games
and other sporting bodies, including WADA again. 
Since the 2022 Ukraine invasion, Russia has further extended this approach, integrating similarly themed
self-proclaimed hacktivist groups into its disruptive playbook. Overlaps in tactics include the continued
appropriation of noteworthy hacktivist identities, crowdsourcing of operational support, and soliciting
coverage that could amplify awareness of operations and their perceived impact through exaggerated
claims of impact. What is newer is the central role of Telegram, which has emerged as a critical source of
sensemaking, war-related information operations, and a key recruitment platform for volunteer cyber
“armies” in the conflict. Notably, Mandiant has observed each of the GRU’s four wartime personas leak
data from victims who were also affected by wiper attacks. In multiple incidents, the use of disruptive
tools and data leaks have occurred within a short window of time, indicating advanced planning for the
inclusion of the IO components in these disruptive campaigns.
CyberArmyofRussia_Reborn: Beginning in March 2022, the Cyber Army of Russia persona,
claiming to be a grassroots “People’s CyberArmy”,  has been used to solicit coverage of destructive
malware operations where CADDYWIPER was deployed, distribute tools and crowdsource DDoS
attacks, leak stolen data, and to amplify accounts spreading propaganda regarding Russia’s
battlefield progress. 
XakNet Team: XakNet’s Telegram channel was also created in March 2022, claiming direct lineage
to a group by the same name that targeted Georgian entities during the Russia-Georgia War of
2008. The group carries out a spectrum of similar activities to Cyber Army of Russia, including
soliciting coverage of network attacks, crowdsourced DDoS attacks, leaks of stolen data, and
amplification of other pro-Russian Telegram accounts. 
Infoccentr: Again in March 2022, a Telegram channel “Infoccentr” was created that has engaged in
the same spectrum of activities to include crowdsourced DDoS attacks, leaks of stolen data, and
drawing attention to victims of CADDYWIPER operations.
Free Civilian: Starting in February 2022, a self proclaimed pro-Russian hacktivist persona “Free
Civilian” claimed responsibility for a series of government website defacements and advertised
stolen documents for sale, using identical defacement images from the January PAYWIPE and
SHADYLOOK wiper campaign. The persona resurfaced on Telegram on the anniversary of the
invasion to claim additional defacements and leak alleged stolen documents.
13/13
Figure 9: Select hacktivist personas co-opted by the GRU since 2014
Conclusions
The GRU’s disruptive operations in Ukraine have revealed a series of tactical choices Russia’s military
has made to achieve its wartime information confrontation objectives. These adaptations have assisted
the GRU to balance different strategic priorities for espionage and attack and to integrate its cyber and
information operation capabilities into a unified, repeatable playbook that could be used across multiple
distinct Russian threat clusters.
Many of the components of the GRU’s disruptive playbook are not new. They have been historically used
in different ways. But in Ukraine, they have been uniquely combined and tailored to meet the
requirements of operating at scale in a fast-paced and highly contested wartime environment while
avoiding detection. As this playbook has almost certainly been purpose-built for Russia’s invasion, we
judge that these specific tactical adaptations may be mirrored in future crises and conflict scenarios
where requirements to support high volumes of disruptive cyber operations are also present. 
It is important to note that this playbook is not wholly unique to Russia’s war in Ukraine. Financially-
motivated ransomware operations also follow a similar playbook, abusing vulnerabilities in edge
infrastructure for initial access, living off the land, and modifying GPOs to spread and execute their
malware. We believe that the convergent use of these tactics is likely driven by a common desire to
reduce the breakout time from initial access to malware delivery and to maximize the disruptive effect in a
target environment. Consequently, preparations to monitor, detect, and respond to the TTPs used in
Russia’s wartime cyber playbook will have transferable benefits for defending against tradecraft
commonly used by ransomware groups as well.
