PIN Number  
 
The following information is being provided by the FBI, with no guarantees or warranties, for potential 
use at the sole discretion of recipients to protect against cyber threats. This data is provided to help 
cyber security professionals and system administrators guard against the persistent malicious actions 
of cyber actors. This PIN was coordinated with DHS/CISA.  
This PIN has been released TLP: CLEAR   
 
 
 Please contact the FBI with any questions related to this Private Industry 
Notification via your local FBI Cyber Squad . 
www.fbi.gov/contact -us/field -offices  TLP: CLEAR   
TLP: CLEAR   4 November 2024  
2024110 4-001 
 
Easy Access to Information for Conducting Fraudulent 
Emergency Data Requests Impacts US -Based Companies 
and Law Enforcement Agencies   
 
Summary  
The Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) is releasing this Private Industry Notification to 
highlight a trend of compromised  US and foreign  government email addresses used to conduct 
fraudulent emergency data requestsab to US -based companies, exposing  personally  identifying 
information  (PII). While the concept of fraudulent emergency data request s was previously 
used by other threat actors, such as Lapsus$,  the increase in postings on criminal forums 
regarding the process of emergency data request s and  sale of compromised credentials has led 
to an increase of their use. The FBI encourage s organizations to implement the 
recommendations in the Mitigations  section to reduce the likelihood and impact from 
submission of fraudulent emergency data request s to attemp t to gain unauthorized access to 
                                                           
a An emergency data request can be used in emergency circumstances to request information immediately from a business and 
bypassing additional reviews of the request for legitimacy.  
b While emergency data requests  are viewed within the law enforcement comm unity as entirely separate data requests, many 
cyber -criminals use this terminology along with letterhead memorandums (LHM), subpoenas, and Mutual Legal Assistance 
Treaties (MLAT) interchangeably.  
 
 
 
TLP: CLEAR   PII. Enhanced password protocols implemented in early 2023 highlighted that a mandated 
increase in password length , the use of multi -factor -authentication (MFA) for users with 
administrative rights , policy controls di rected at vishing , and improved baseline monitoring 
worked together to decrease successful attempts at cracking passwords and made networks 
more resilient to a threat actor’s initial intrusion and persistence.   
 
Threat  
As of August  2024, FBI noted an uptick in criminal forum posts regarding conducting fraudulent 
emergency data  requests and is releasing this notification for industry awareness. Cyber -
criminal s are likely gaining access to compromised US and foreign government email ad dresses 
and using them to conduct fraudulent emergency data requests to US based companies, 
exposing the personal information of customers to further use for criminal purposes.  
• In August 2024, a known cyber -criminal on an online forum  posted their sale of “High 
Quality .gov emails  for espionage/social engineering/data extortion/Dada requests, 
etc”, which included US credentials. The poster indicated they could guide a buyer 
through emergency data requests and sell real stolen subpoena documents to pose as a 
law officer.  
• In March 2024, a known cyber -criminal on an online forum indicated they “own ed” 
government emails from over 25 countries, and that through a successful subpoena , the 
requestor could gain access to usernames, emails, phone numbers, and other private 
client information.  
• In March 2024 , a known cyber -criminal posted photos on an online forum of a 
fraudulent emergency data request  submitted to Paypal. According to PayP al, the threat 
actor submitted a fraudulent Mutual Legal Assistance Treaty (MLAT) regarding a local 
ongoing investigation into child trafficking, which included a case number and legal code 
for verification, but the request was ultimately denied by PayPal.   
• In December 2023, cyber -criminals  would send a fake emergency data request , along 
with a  statement to provide the requested information  immedi ately , indicating an 
individual would suffer greatly or die unless the requested information was provided by 
the company.   
• In October 2023, a known cyber -criminal  stated on an online forum that .gov emails  
could be used to  carry out emergency data request s on users , and  allow a user to  
“become” a law enforcement officer or government entity. They further stated that the 
data obtained could be used to carry out phishing or malware attacks against the 
government sector and become an initial access vector.  
 
 
TLP: CLEAR   • In August 2023, a cyber -criminal stated they were teaching individuals how to  create 
and submit their own emergency data request s to get information on any social media 
account for 100USD.  
 
Mitigation s 
FBI recommends government  and other  organizations  that receive emergency data request s 
take the steps below to improve their security posture in response to the noted attack trends 
and possible outcomes  using more resilient security protocols . FBI recommends organizations 
establish and maintain strong liaison relationships with the FBI Fiel d Office in their region. The 
location and contact information for FBI Field Offices can be located at www.fbi.gov/contact -
us/field -offices . Through these partnerships, FBI can assist  with identif ying vulnerabilities and 
mitigating potential threat activity. FBI further recommends organizations review and, if 
needed, update incident response and communication plans that list actions an organization 
will take if impacted by a cyber incident.  
The cyb ersecurity landscape is ever -evolving, and cyber threats are becoming increasingly 
sophisticated. Organizations need to stay ahead of the curve using proactive approaches to 
mitigate risks. FBI recommends applying the following common industry best practic es: 
Mitigation for Cyber Incidents - 
• Review the security posture of third -party vendors and those interconnected with your 
organization. Ensure all connections between third -party vendors and outside software 
or hardware are monitored and reviewed for susp icious activity.  
• Document and monitor external remote connections. Organizations should document 
approved solutions for remote management and maintenance, and immediately 
investigate if an unapproved solution is installed on a workstation.  
• Implement a reco very plan to maintain and retain multiple copies of sensitive or 
proprietary data and servers in a physically separate, segmented, and secure location 
(that is, a hard drive, other storage device, or the cloud).  
• Private Sector Companies receiving Law Enforcement requests should apply critical 
thinking to any emergency data requests received. Cyber -criminals understand the need 
for exigency, and use it to their advantage to shortcut the necessary analysis of the 
emergency data request. FBI recommends reviewers pay close attention to doctored 
images such as signatures or logos applied to the document. In addition, FBI 
recommends looking at the legal codes referenced in the emergency data request, as 
they should match  what would be expected from the originating authority. For example, 
if this request is coming from a country outside of the United States, it should not 
appear to be copied and pasted language from the U.S. Title Code. Similarly, a foreign 
country’s law e nforcement would not be attaching a U.S. subpoena. If suspicion and the 
 
 
TLP: CLEAR   need for validation arises, the FBI recommends contacting the sender and originating 
authority to discuss the request further.  
• Develop and implement strong password protocols.  
o Password s should use at least 16 characters; even longer passwords are better 
and significantly reduce risk. Password length is the greater mitigating factor, 
compared to complexity. Encourage a combination of two, or more, of the 
following within passwords: upper case letters, lower -case letters, numbers, and 
symbols;  
o Encourage unique passwords (a password used for only one account);  
o Prevent common words that could be found in the dictionary, and blacklist 
specific words relating to the names of persons, characters, products, or the 
organization;  
o Check passwords against a blacklist of characteristics, such as those previously 
mentioned in a breach, containing repetitive characters or symbols, or have 
context -specific information, like derivatives of the se rvice or a username;  
o Encourage a string of mixed -case letters, numbers, and symbols, or a passphrase 
of 5-7 random words.  
o For additional guidance on developing strong password policies, refer to the 
Cybersecurity & Infrastructure and Security Agency’s ( CISA) password guidance : 
Use Strong Passwords | CISA  
• Use Secure Password Storage: Require all accounts  with password logins (for example, 
service account, admin accounts, and domain a dmin accounts) to comply with National 
Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) standards for developing and managing 
password policies.  
o Store passwords in hashed format using industry -recognized password 
managers;  
o Add password user “salts” to shared l ogin credentials;  
o Avoid reusing passwords;  
o Implement multiple failed login attempt account lockouts;  
o Disable password “hints”;  
o Refrain from requiring password changes more frequently than once per year 
unless a password is known or suspected to be compromi sed (Note: NIST 
guidance suggests favoring longer passwords instead of requiring regular and 
frequent password resets. Frequent password resets are more likely to result in 
users developing password “patterns” cyber criminals can easily decipher.); and  
o Require administrator credentials to install software.  
• Implement Password Management Tools  such as password manager and SSO.  
• Assess user passwords for compliance  with organizational policies, and to ensure they 
meet certain standards and criteria.  
• Require default credentials be changed  on all hardware and software products.  
• Require phishing -resistant multifactor authentication  for all services to the extent 
possible, particularly for webmail, virtual private networks, and accounts that access 
critical syste ms.  
 
 
TLP: CLEAR   • Review domain controllers, servers, workstations, and active directories  for new 
and/or unrecognized accounts.  
• Audit user accounts with administrative privileges,  and configure access controls 
according to the principle of least privilege.  
• Implement  time -based access for accounts set at the admin level and higher.  For 
example, the Just -in-Time (JIT) access method provisions privileged access when needed 
and can support enforcement of the principle of least privilege (as well as the Zero Trust 
model).  This is a process where a network -wide policy is set in place to automatically 
disable admin accounts at the Active Directory level when the account is not in direct 
need. Individual users may submit their requests through an automated process that 
grants  them access to a specified system for a set timeframe when they need to support 
the completion of a certain task.  
• Generate compliance reports  to better assess your organization’s password compliance 
status, in particular highlighting areas of non -complian ce, vulnerabilities, and potential 
risks related to password security.  
• Secure and closely monitor remote desktop protocol (RDP) use.   
• Limit access to resources over internal networks, especially by restricting RDP and 
using virtual desktop infrastructure.  If RDP is deemed operationally necessary, restrict 
the originating sources and require MFA to mitigate credential theft and reuse. If RDP 
must be available externally, use a VPN, virtual desktop infrastructure, or other means 
to authenticate and secure the  connection before allowing RDP to connect to internal 
devices. Monitor remote access/RDP logs, enforce account lockouts after a specified 
number of attempts to block brute force campaigns, log RDP login attempts, and disable 
unused remote access/RDP ports . 
• Segment networks to prevent the spread of malware/ransomware . Network 
segmentation can help prevent the spread of malware/ransomware by controlling 
traffic flows between —and access to —various subnetworks, and by restricting 
adversary lateral movement.   
• Identify, detect, and investigate abnormal activity and potential traversal of any 
indicated malware/ransomware with a networking monitoring tool.  To aid in detecting 
malware/ransomware, implement a tool that logs and reports all network traffic, 
including  lateral movement activity on a network. Endpoint detection and response 
(EDR) tools are particularly useful for detecting lateral connections as they have insight 
into common and uncommon network connections for each host.  
• Install, regularly update, and enable real time detection for antivirus software on all 
hosts.  
Vulnerability and Configuration Management -  
• Keep all operating systems, software, and firmware up to date.  Timely patching is one 
of the most efficient and cost -effective steps an organization can take to minimize its 
exposure to cybersecurity threats. Organizations should prioritize patching of 
vulnerabilities on CISA’s Known Exploited Vulnerabilities catalog . 
 
 
TLP: CLEAR   • Disable command -line and scripting activities and permissions.  Privilege escalation and 
lateral movement often depend on software utilities running from the command line. If 
threat actors are not able to run these tools, they will have difficulty escalating 
privileges and/or moving laterally.  
• Ensure devices are prop erly configured and that security features are enabled.  
• Disable ports and protocols that are not being used for a business purpose  (such as 
RDP Transmission Control Protocol Port 3389).  
• Restrict Server Message Block (SMB) Protocol within the network to o nly access 
servers that are necessary, and remove or disable outdated versions of SMB  (such as 
SMB version 1). Threat actors use SMB to propagate malware across organizatio ns.  
 
 
Reporting Notice  
The FBI encourages recipients of this document to report in formation concerning suspicious or 
criminal activity to their local FBI field office or  ic3.gov . Field office contacts can be identified at 
www.fbi.gov/contact -us/field -offices. When available, each report submitted should include 
the date, time, location,  type of activity, number of people, type of equipment used for the 
activity, the name of the submitting company or organization, and a designated point of 
contact. Press inquiries should be directed to the FBI’s National Press Office at npo@fbi.gov or 
(202) 324 -3691 . 
 
Administrative Note  
This product is marked  TLP:CLEAR . Subject to standard copyright rules, the information is this 
product may be shared without restrictions.  
Your Feedback Regarding this Product is Critical  
Please take a few minutes to send us your feedback. Your feedback submission 
may be anonymous. We read each submission carefully, and your feedback will 
be extremely valuable to the FBI. Feedback should be s pecific to your 
experience with our written products to enable the FBI to make quick and 
continuous improvements to these products. Feedback may be submitted 
online here
 :
 
 
https://www.ic3.gov/PIFSurvey
  
 
  
