1/10
blog-nsfocus-net.translate.goog
/aptconfuciuspakistanibo/
Analysis of APT organization Confucius's cyber attack
against IBO anti-terrorism operations in Pakistan
Fuying Laboratory ⋮
I. Overview
Affected by various factors, Pakistan has long suffered serious threats from local terrorism, and the
country has always regarded counter-terrorism as an important national security strategy. In the second
half of 2022, Pakistani security forces launched multiple intelligence-based operations (IBOs) in
Balochistan, Khyber District, North Waziristan District and other places, raiding and killing several
terrorist.
Pakistan's recent high-profile performance in counter-terrorism has aroused the attention of India. On
November 30, NSFOCUS Fuying Lab captured a cyber attack against the armed forces in the Multan
area of ​​Pakistan. The attacker used the IBO action report in the Rodland area of ​​Multan as a bait to try to
deliver a variant Trojan program to take control of the victim device. After analysis, NSFOCUS
Technology Fuying Laboratory confirmed that the leader of the incident is the Indian APT organization
Confucius.
2. Organizational association
Confucius is an APT organization funded by India. It has been carrying out cyber attacks since 2013. Its
main targets are Pakistan, China and other neighboring countries of India. It has a strong interest in
targets in the fields of military, government and energy.
The Confucius organization will use Windows-side Trojan horse programs and Android-side Trojan horse
programs to carry out espionage attacks on targets to steal information. The attack tools used include
SubBird, CharSpy, and Hornbill, etc., which have strong development and penetration capabilities.
In this attack, the Confucius attackers followed their common decoy construction mode and used a new
version variant program of the organization's known attack tool MessPrint.
3. Attack process
In this cyber attack incident, the Confucius attackers constructed a phishing document named
"IBO_Lodhran.doc" (Intelligence-Based Operations in the Lodland Region) and a phishing document
named "US_Dept_of_State_Fund_Allocations_for_Pakistan.doc" (United States Department of State
Fund Allocations for Pakistan) , targeting Pakistan's security forces and diplomatic government
departments respectively.
2/10
These phishing documents carry intelligence content with a certain degree of authenticity, and use
prompt information to induce the victim to start the editing function of the document, and then execute an
attack process of implanting a variant Trojan horse.
Tips for phishing documents
3/10
IBO_Lodhran.doc phishing document content
4/10
Figure 3.3 US_Dept_of_State_Fund_Allocations_for_Pakistan.doc phishing document content
The typical attack flow in this incident is shown in the figure below.
5/10
Typical attack flow of this incident
 When the macro in the above phishing document is executed, the document releases an encrypted file
named gist.txt to the specified directory, and sets a scheduled task to run every 30 minutes to run the file
regularly.
6/10
Scheduled tasks for phishing document settings
 The running gist.txt is actually a powershell Trojan horse. First, it initiates a link to the fixed location
tcp://142.234.157[.]195:8080 to test connectivity, and uploads the local user name, computer name, mac
The address, system information and other content are used as registration information; then a piece of
encrypted data is downloaded from the fixed location http://microsoftonedriver[.]com:8989/enc.txt,
decrypted into VERSION.dll and loaded and executed with the help of rundll32 component.
The VERSION.dll file is the main Trojan program used by Confucius attackers in this incident, and its
connection CnC is tcp://info-updates.ddns[.]net:8080.
4. Trojan horse analysis
The main Trojan horse program VERSION.dll that appeared in this incident is a variant program of a
known attack component of Confucius. For the convenience of follow-up tracking, Fuying Lab temporarily
named the attack component MessPrint.
Compared with the previous version, the new version of the MessPrint Trojan program used by Confucius
has changed a lot in terms of functions and countermeasures, and its main version number has also
been upgraded from 2.XX to 3.1.0.
Features
The main functions of the MessPrint variant Trojan that appeared this time are divided into three parts:
operation log recording, victim host information upload and command execution.
7/10
After the Trojan runs, first create a log file named log.txt in the C:\ProgramData directory, and when the
Trojan runs to each stage, the prompt information will be recorded in the log file. We did not find this
recording function in the previous version of the Trojan horse program, so it is speculated that this version
of the Trojan horse is a test version and was directly used by Confucius attackers in network attack
activities.
Subsequently, the Trojan horse program collects various information of the victim's host, and aggregates
the information into a piece of encrypted data and sends it to the CnC. The information collected by this
Trojan is shown in the table below.
List of information collected by Trojans
Host information
collected by the
MessPrint variant
Trojan
content example
hostname\username WIN-SBSB6AEF44L\superlove
adapter mac
address
00:0C:29:D0:13:FA
OS major version
Windows 7
operating system
bits
version x64
List of current
process PID and
path
PID NO:300—–
C:\Windows\System32\smss.exe
PID NO:396—–
C:\Windows\System32\csrss.exe
List of installed
software
AddressBook
Connection Manager
The above information directly uses the fixed symbol #$#* as the delimiter, and uses the fixed symbol
iqaz as the end symbol at the end.
The above information will be encrypted by the following encryption method before being sent to CnC:
1. XOR 0x1D byte by byte;
2. Base64 transcoding;
The subsequent communication between the variant Trojan horse program and the CnC follows the
above encryption method.
After sending the host information, the variant Trojan horse program and CnC use keywords such as
"check_status", "verified", "hi" and "order" for multiple rounds of confirmation, and finally enter the
command execution mode. In the command execution part, the MessPrint Trojan horse can respond to
the following commands and parameters issued by CnC, and perform commands such as file download,
program operation, and CMD command execution.
List of Trojan CnC commands
8/10
CnC
command
Command
parameter
1
command
parameter
2
Features
DWN
Where to
save the
file
 
Download the file sent
by CnC to the specified
location
ALT
program
location
Program
running
parameters
Run the program
specified by CnC
app
cmd
command
 
Run the CMD command
specified by CnC
black
sleep time
 
Sleep for specified time
Through analysis, it is found that this version of the MessPrint Trojan program has made many changes
in the functional part. On the one hand, it protects the CnC communication process through encryption,
and on the other hand, it greatly reduces the file stealing and shell rebound functions in the previous
version of the Trojan horse.
The above changes indicate that the positioning of the Trojan horse program has changed from a full-
featured spyware to a Stub-type backdoor Trojan horse, and the subsequent spy Trojan horse functions
are separated into independent components through component splitting. This change is very common in
the development of APT attack components in recent years. APT attackers can use this refinement to
reduce the exposure risk of the overall framework.
confrontation
In the MessPrint Trojan that appeared this time, the developers of Confucius added a lot of anti-analysis
techniques, which made the analysis of the Trojan more difficult.
The MessPrint Trojan mainly uses an exception-based control flow obfuscation technology. This
obfuscation changes the ordinary linear process into a try-throw-catch structure, so that the two pieces of
code that were originally linearly connected are divided into non-adjacent ones. try and catch block. In
this way, the c++ object is thrown at a specific location, so that the execution process needs to jump to
the code that can be directly executed under the linear structure through the C++ exception handling of
VS.
The following figure shows the basic logic of this exception-based control flow obfuscation:
9/10
Confusion ideas used by the MessPrint Trojan
This obfuscation method can be used for static analysis of some decompilation tools, because most
pseudocodes cannot normally restore the above exception handling process.
In addition, the Confucius developer also abused some common code obfuscation techniques in the
MessPrint Trojan, such as stack inflation, redundant instructions, and meaningless code, further hindering
static analysis. Considering the large number of development traces in this version of the MessPrint
Trojan, we speculate that the Confucius developers had no choice but to enable the development version
of the program, hoping to use obfuscation to reduce the loss caused by exposure.
V. Summary
As a direct demonstration of the country's armed forces in peacetime, Pakistan's recent series of IBO
anti-terrorism operations have made India very sensitive. The APT attacks captured this time also show
that India has begun to invest its cyber attack forces in related reconnaissance activities.
Through the analysis of this Confucius attack incident, on the one hand, we found that Confucius
developers are still maintaining a relatively active pace of attack component development, and on the
other hand, it also confirmed that APT group developers are generally splitting and framing attack
components. Due to the gradual improvement of the APT capture, analysis, and disclosure process by
the defender in recent years, APT attackers have to use a framework to rebuild attack tools, and control
the use of components at all levels through level-by-level delivery to reduce the risk of complete
exposure. risk.
10/10
6. IoC
Phishing document:
c75b8c150054b5ba27cf08c46e13354e
23537d81e9cd285b41185a0e4c3d37c1
Encrypted powershell Trojan file: 

ab34c3eb8635fc13e4a586cba3c7469d
powershell Trojan CnC:
142.234.157[.]195:8080
Download address: 

http[:]//microsoftonedriver[.]com:8989/enc.txt
MessPrint variant Trojan horse program: 

65d9b142924d4e74cb729166f41b16fa
MessPrint Trojan CnC: 

info-updates.ddns[.]net:8080
About Fuying Lab
Research targets include Botnet, APT advanced threats, DDoS countermeasures, WEB
countermeasures, popular service system vulnerabilities, identity authentication threats, digital asset
threats, black industry threats and emerging threats. Identify risks by controlling live network threats,
mitigate threat damage, and provide decision-making support for threat confrontation.
Copyright Statement

The copyright holder of all contents of the "Technology Blog" on this site is NSFOCUS Technology Group
Co., Ltd. ("NSFOTO Technology"). As a platform for sharing technical information, NSFOCUS looks
forward to interacting with users, and welcomes forwarding the full text with the source (NSFOCUS-
Technology Blog) and URL indicated. 

Any form of use other than the above-mentioned circumstances needs to apply for copyright
authorization to NSFOCUS (010-68438880-5462) in advance. For unauthorized use, NSFOCUS reserves
the right to pursue responsibility. At the same time, if legal disputes arise due to unauthorized use of blog
content, the user shall bear all legal responsibilities and has nothing to do with NSFOCUS.
