1/42
www.trendmicro.com
/en_us/research/23/c/earth-preta-updated-stealthy-strategies.html
Pack it Secretly: Earth Preta’s Updated Stealthy
Strategies
⋮ 3/23/2023
APT & Targeted Attacks
Earth Preta has actively been changing its tools, tactics, and procedures (TTPs) to bypass security
solutions. In this blog entry, we will introduce and analyze the tools and malware used by the threat actor
in its most recent campaigns.
By: Vickie Su, Nick Dai, Sunny Lu
March 23, 2023
Read time: 20 min (5504 words)
In our previous research, we disclosed and analyzed a new campaign initiated by the threat actor group
Earth Preta (aka Mustang Panda). In a more recent campaign we’ve been tracking, we discovered Earth
Preta delivering lure archives via spear-phishing emails and Google Drive links. After months of
investigation, we found that several undisclosed malware and interesting tools used for exfiltration
purposes were used in this campaign. We also observed that the threat actors were actively changing
their tools, tactics, and procedures (TTPs) to bypass security solutions. In this blog entry, we will
introduce and analyze the other tools and malware used by Earth Preta.
Infection chain
As we previously mentioned in our past blog entry, the entire attack begins with a spear-phishing email.
After a long-term investigation into the attack routine, we’ve determined that the full infection chain works
2/42
as follows:
Figure 1. The full infection chain
We categorize the different TTPs into six stages: arrival vectors, discovery, privilege escalation, lateral
movement, command and control (C&C) and exfiltration, respectively. In our previous research, we
covered most of the new TTPs and malware during the first stage, arrival vectors. However, we observed
that some of TTPs have been changed. In the following sections, we focus on the updated arrival vectors
and their succeeding stages.
Arrival vectors
We previously summarized the arrival vectors used by Earth Preta by categorizing them into three types
(DLL sideloading, shortcut links, and fake file extensions). Starting in October and November 2022, we
observed that the threat actors began changing their TTPs to deploy the TONEINS, TONESHELL, and
PUBLOAD malware. We believe that the threat actors are employing these new techniques to avoid
detection.
Trojan.Win32.TONEINS
Based on our earlier observation, the TONEINS and TONESHELL malware were downloaded from the
Google Drive link embedded in the body of an email. To bypass email-scanning services and email
gateway solutions, the Google Drive link has now been embedded in a lure document. The document
lures users into downloading a malicious password-protected archive with the embedded link. The files
can then be extracted inside via the password provided in the document. By using this technique, the
malicious actor behind the attack can successfully bypass scanning services.
3/42
Figure 2. A lure document (allegedly concerning the government-related Myanmar
Sustainable Development Plan) embedded with a Google Drive link and a password
For the new arrival vector, the whole infection flow has been changed to the procedure shown in Figure 3.
4/42
Figure 3. Infection flow for the new arrival vector
File name 
Detection name
Description
Letter Head.docx
 
Decoy document with Google
Drive link
List of terrorist personnel at the border.rar (all entries below are part of this archive)
List of terrorist personnel at the
border.exe
 
First-stage legitimate
executable for DLL sideloading
libcef.dll
Trojan.Win32.TONEINS
First-stage malware
~$Evidence information.docx
 
Second-stage legitimate
executable for DLL sideloading
~$List of terrorist personnel at
the border.docx
Backdoor.Win32.TONESHELL Second-stage malware
Internal Letter.docx
 
Decoy document
Letter Head.docx
 
Decoy document
Table 1. Files in the new arrival vector
After analyzing the downloaded archive, we discovered it to be a malicious RAR file with the TONEINS
malware libcef.dll and the TONESHELL malware ~List of terrorist personnel at the border.docx. The
infection flow for these is similar to the arrival vector type C in our previous report, with the only difference
being that the fake .docx files have XOR-encrypted content to prevent detection. For example,
~$Evidence information.docx is a file disguising itself as an Office Open XML document. As such, it
seems harmless and can even be opened by using decompression software such as 7-Zip.
5/42
We found that the threat actors have hidden a PE file in one of the archive’s ZIPFILERECORD structures.
The TONEINS malware, libcef.dll, will decrypt this file with a single byte in XOR operations, find the PE
header, and drop the payload to the specified path.
Figure 4. A PE file is revealed after decrypting the frData member in the last
ZIPFILECECORD structure.
Figure 5. The decryption function of TONEINS
The succeeding behaviors of the infection flow are generally the same as those in our previous analysis,
where we provide more details.
In more recent cases, the malware PUBLOAD was also being delivered through Google Drive links
embedded in decoy documents.
6/42
Figure 6. The lure document Invitation letter from the US embassy.docx
Since October 2022, we have been observing a new variant of PUBLOAD, which uses the spoofed HTTP
header to transfer the data, as LAC’s report also discusses. In contrast to the previous PUBLOAD
variant, it prepends an HTTP header with a legitimate-looking host name to the packets. We believe that
the threat actors are trying to conceal malicious data among normal traffic. The data in the HTTP body is
the same as the past variant, which has the same magic bytes 17 03 03 and the encrypted victim
information. We were able to successfully retrieve the payload from a live C&C server and were therefore
able to continue our analysis.
Figure 7. C&C traffic of the PUBLOAD HTTP variant
Once the payload is received, it will check if the first three magic bytes are 17 03 03 and if the following
two bytes are the size of payload. It will then decrypt the encrypted payload with the predefined RC4 key
78 5A 12 4D 75 14 14 11 6C 02 71 15 5A 73 05 08 70 14 65 3B 64 42 22 23 20 00 00 00 00 00 00 00,
which is the same as the one used in the PUBLOAD loader. 
7/42
Figure 8. The first payload retrieved from the PUBLOAD HTTP variant
After decryption, it then checks if the first byte of the decrypted payload is 0x06. The decrypted payload
contains another payload that is XOR-encrypted with the bytes 23 BE 84 E1 6C D6 AE 52 90.
Figure 9. The second payload retrieved from the PUBLOAD HTTP variant
After this is decrypted, there is yet another final backdoor payload that supports data upload and
command execution.
Figure 10. The final payload of the PUBLOAD HTTP variant
Command
Internal string
0x03
-
0x01
-
0x1B
UploadBegin error : %d!
8/42
0x1D
UploadData error : %d!
0x1A
-
0x1E
CmdStart error : %d!
0x1F
CmdWrite error : %d!
0x30
CmdWrite error : %d
0x20
-
Table 2. Command codes in the PUBLOAD HTTP variant
In addition, we found some interesting debug strings and event names among the PUBLOAD samples.
Figure 11. Event name in PUBLOAD
9/42
Figure 12. Debug string in PUBLOAD
In summary, we think that the new TONESHELL and PUBLOAD archives have been evolving and now
have something in common. For example, both of them are now being placed in decoy documents (such
as Google Drive links) in order to bypass antivirus scanning.
Discovery
Once the threat actors obtain access to the victim’s environment, they can start inspecting the
environment via the following commands:
net user
net user <username>
net user <username> /DOMAIN
Privilege escalation
In this campaign, we discovered several tools used for UAC bypass in Windows 10. We will go into detail
for each of them.
HackTool.Win 32.ABPASS
HackTool.Win32.ABPASS is a tool used to bypass UAC in Windows 10. Based on our analysis, it reuses
codes from the function ucmShellRegModMethod3, which is from a famous open-source project called
UACME. A report from Sophos introduces this tool. 
This tool accepts an argument, and the following data is written into registry:
Registry Key
Name
Value
HKEY_USERS\<SID>-1001_Classes\aaabbb32\shell\open\command
(Default) argv[1]
10/42
HKEY_USERS\<SID>-1001_Classes\ms-settings\CurVer
(Default) aaabbb32
Table 3. Registry keys changed by ABPASS
It also changes how Windows handles the ms-settings protocol — in this case, the string ms-settings is a
Programmatic Identifier (ProgID). If the CurVer key is set under a ProgID, it will be used for versioning
and mapping the current ProgID (ms-settings) to the one specified in the CurVer’s default value. In turn,
the behavior of ms-settings is redirected to the custom defined ProgID aaabbb32. It also sets up a new
ProgID aaabbb32 and its shell open command. Finally, fodhelper.exe or computerDefaults.exe will be
executed to trigger the ms-settings protocol.
Figure 13. The added ProgID aaabbb32
HackTool.Win 32.CCPASS
HackTool.Win32.CCPASS is another tool that is also used for Windows 10 UAC bypass and similarly
reuses codes from the function ucmMsStoreProtocolMethod in the project UACME.
Figure 14. Code similarities in CCPASS and ucmMsStoreProtocolMethod
It works in a similar way to ABPASS. However, unlike ABPASS, it hijacks the ms-windows-store protocol.
The hack tool CCPASS works as follows:
1. It disables the application association toasts for the protocol ms-windows-store.
2. It creates a new Shell in the registry.
3. It invokes the undocumented API UserAssocSet to update the file association.
4. It executes WSReset.exe to trigger this protocol.
In Windows 10 and above, the system shows a new toast dialog for selecting the open application for the
selected file type. To hide this window, the tool explicitly adds new entries to
HKCU\Software\Microsoft\Windows\CurrentVersion\ApplicationAssociationToasts to disable all toasts
related to the protocol ms-windows-store.
11/42
Figure 15. An example of the application association toast
Figure 16. Hiding application association toasts via the registry
Once this is done, the tool starts to alter the shell command of ms-windows-store and finally triggers it
using WSReset.exe.
SilentCleanup
In Windows 10, there is a native Windows service called “SilentCleanup.” This service has the highest
privileges that can be abused for Windows 10 UAC bypass. Normally, this service is intended for running
%windir%\system32\cleanmgr.exe. However, the environment variable %windir% can be hijacked and
changed to any path to achieve privilege escalation.
12/42
Figure 17. Malicious commands abusing the SilentCleanup service
We observed that the threat actors used this technique to execute c:\users\public\1.exe.
Lateral movement
In this stage, we observed certain malware such as HIUPAN and ACNSHELL (initially introduced and
analyzed by Mandiant and Sophos) being used to install themselves to removable disks and create a
reverse shell.
USB Worm: Worm.Win 32.HIUPAN and+ Backdoor.Win
32.ACNSHELL
We found a pair of malware comprised of a USB worm and a reverse shell —includin g a USB worm and
a reverse shell (detected as Worm.Win32.HIUPAN and Backdoor.Win32.ACNSHELL, respectively,) —
being used to spread themselves over removable drives. 
Figure 18 shows the infection chain for both.
Figure 18. HIUPAN and ACNSHELL infection flow
The USB Driver.exe program first sideloads u2ec.dll, which then loads the payload file usb.ini. They have
the following PDB strings, respectively:
G:\project\APT\U盘劫持\new\u2ec\Release\u2ec.pdb
G:\project\APT\U盘劫持\new\shellcode\Release\shellcode.pdb
The string U盘劫持 means “U disk hijacking,” where “U disk” refers to removable drives.
13/42
USB Driver.exe then starts checking whether it is properly installed. If it is installed, it will start to infect
more removable disks and copy files to a folder named autorun.inf. If it is not installed, it installs itself to
%programdata% and then sets the registry run key for persistence.
Finally, the ACNSHELL malware rzlog4cpp.dll is sideloaded. It will then create a reverse shell via
ncat.exe to the server closed[.]theworkpc[.]com.
Command and Control (C&C) stage
Earth Preta employed several tools and commands for the C&C stage. For example, the group used
certutil.exe to download the legitimate WinRAR binary as rar1.exe from the server 103[.]159[.]132[.]91.
Figure 19. The certutil.exe program downloads the WinRAR binary
We also observed that the threat actors used PowerShell to download multiple malware and archives
from the server 103[.]159[.]132[.]181 for future use.
Figure 20. PowerShell downloading malware
In certain instances, they even leveraged the WinRAR binary installed on the victim hosts to decompress
all the malware.
14/42
Figure 21. Decompressing malware with the installed WinRAR binary
Although we found several logs involving multiple pieces of dropped malware, we only managed to
retrieve a few of them. Among all our collected samples, we will introduce the most noteworthy ones.
Backdoor.Win32.CLEXEC
The file name of the backdoor CLEXEC is SensorAware.dll. This is a simple backdoor that is capable of
executing commands and clearing event logs.
Figure 22. Command codes of CLEXEC
Backdoor.Win32.COOLCLIENT
15/42
The backdoor COOLCLIENT was first introduced in a report from Sophos;  the sample mentioned in the
report was compiled in 2021. In our case, the COOLCLIENT sample we analyzed had a more recent
compilation time in 2022, and while it provides the same functionalities, it has the added capability to
open a decoy document (work.pdf) when the current process name has “.pdf” or “.jpg” file extensions. It
contains less OutputDebugStrings calls. Meanwhile, loader.ja is used under two processes: One is under
googleupdate.exe, which is used for the first sideloading. The second is under winver.exe, which is
injected to conduct backdoor behaviors. Furthermore, COOLCLIENT applies obfuscation techniques that
we discuss in later sections.
Figure 23. Open decoy document
Figure 24 shows the whole execution flow of COOLCLIENT.
Figure 24. Execution flow of COOLCLIENT
The arguments of COOLCLIENT provide the following capabilities:
install. There are several ways to install COOLCLIENT, detailed here:
16/42
1. It installs itself by creating an InstallSvc service called InstallSvc which will trigger
“googleupdate.exe work”..
2. It sets up a run key for via the command C:\ProgramData\GoogleUpdate\googleupdate.exe work
for persistence.

work. The malware will continue to read and decrypt goopdate.ja and inject it into winver.exe for the next-
stage payload (COOLCLIENT), which contains malicious behaviors.
passuac. The malware will check if the process avp.exe exists. If avp.exe doesn’t exist, UAC bypass will
be executed via the CMSTPLUA COM interface. If avp.exe exists, UAC bypass will be executed via the
AppInfo RPC service.
Figure 25. UAC Bypass via the CMSTPLUA COM interface
17/42
Figure 26. UAC Bypass via the AppInfo RPC service
According to our analysis, it reads the encrypted configuration file time.sig. It is also able to communicate
through different network protocols such as UDP (User Datagram Protocol) and TCP (Transmission
Control Protocol). Based on some internal strings and the APIs used by Earth Preta, the functionalities of
this backdoor can be inferred as follows:
Send portmap
Build connection
Read file
Delete file
Keystrokes and windows monitoring
Backdoor.Win32.TROCLIENT
The backdoor TROCLIENT, which was also first disclosed in Sophos’s report, is similar to  COOLCLIENT.
However, this backdoor has an anti-debugging technique, which will check if the running processes have
the strings dbg.exe or olly. 
18/42
Figure 27. TROCLIENT anti-debugging technique.
Figure 28 shows the whole execution flow of TROCLIENT.
Figure 28. Execution flow of TROCLIENT
The arguments of TROCLIENT provide the following capabilities:
install. There are two  waysto determine the method of installation for TROCLIENT, detailed here:
1. It installs itself by creating aservice called InstallSvc which will trigger
“C:\programdata\netsky\netsky.exe online”.
2. It sets up a run key for the command C:\programdata\netsky\netsky.exe online for persistence.
19/42
online: It will read the next stage payloads, free.plg and main.plg, and inject them into dllhost.exe.
passuac: The malware will check if the process avp.exe exists. If it does not, UAC bypass is executed
via the CMSTPLUA COM interface. If avp.exe exists, UAC bypass is executed via token manipulation.
Figure 29. The capabilities of three different arguments
This backdoor provides the following capabilities:
Read file
Delete file
Monitor keystrokes and windows
There are several similarities and differences between COOLCLIENT and TROCLIENT, as Table 3
shows.
Argument/Behaviors
COOLCLIENT
TROCLIENT
install
Creates a service named InstallSvc
✓
✓
Executes itself with passuac
✓
✓
20/42
Sets Run Key with “work/online”
✓
✓
passuac
AppInfo RPC
✓
 
CMSTPLUA COM
✓
✓
Token manipulation
 
✓
work/online
Send portmap
✓
 
Connect to C&C
✓
✓
File operations
✓
✓
Keylogging
✓
✓
Table 3. Comparison of COOLCLIENT and TROCLIENT
In addition to the aforementioned malware, we also found several shellcode loaders for PlugX. Since it is
a known malware family, we will not expand on its details in this blog entry.
Exfiltration
Based on our telemetry, we found that Earth Preta used multiple approaches to exfiltrate sensitive data
from the victims. For example, in some cases, we observed that WinRAR and curl (or cURL) were
leveraged to collect and transfer data to the threat actor’s server. After further investigation, we even
found some previously unseen pieces of malware that were used to collect data in a custom-made file
format. In the following sections, we share the details of the unique exfiltration toolsets developed by
Earth Preta.
WinRAR and curl
According to some of our monitoring logs, the threat actors abused the installed WinRAR binary and the
uploaded curl executable to exfiltrate the files (Figure 30 shows the executed command). Note that the
executable log.log is a legitimate curl binary. All the exfiltrated data was collected and sent back to the
threat actor-controlled FTP (File Transfer Protocol) server.
Figure 30. Exfiltrate data using WinRAR and curl
In some cases, we accidentally stumbled on the account and password of the FTP server. Upon checking
the FTP server, we learned that the threat actors focused on sensitive and confidential documents, most
of which were compressed and protected with a password. Based on our observations, the documents
were organized via the categorization of the victim’s host name and disk drive.
21/42
Figure 31. FTP servers with stolen documents
Apart from well-known legitimate tools, the threat actors also crafted highly customized tools used for
exfiltration. We named this malware “NUPAKAGE," a name derived from its unique PDB string,
D:\Project\NEW_PACKAGE_FILE\Release\NEW_PACKAGE_FILE.pdb.
The NUPAKAGE malware needs a unique passcode to be executed, with the exfiltrated data being
wrapped in a custom file format. It seems that the threat actors are continuously updating this tool to
provide more flexibility and lower the possibility of detection, including adding more command-line
arguments and obfuscation mechanisms. By default, it only collects  documents, including the files with
the following extensions:
.doc
.docx
.xls
.xlsx
.ppt
.pptx
.pdf
It avoids collecting documents with file names starting with “$” or “~” since these types of documents are
usually either temporary files generated by the system or PE files pretending to be decoy documents (as
we discussed in the arrival vectors section).
The usage of this tool is as follows:
malware.exe passcode start end chunk -s extension_A extension_B …
Argument
Name
Format
Example
Value
Description
passcode
String
comeon
A unique code to execute it
start
String
2022-01-01
The start range of the exfiltrated file’s modification
timestamp
end
String
2022-12-31
The end range of the exfiltrated file’s modification
timestamp
chunk
Integer 4096
Splits the generated data in chunks by the specified size
(MB)
22/42
-s
String
 
File extensions to be collected; optional
Table 5. Arguments of the NUPAKAGE malware
Every NUPAKAGE malware needs a unique passcode as its first argument to continue execution. As
Figure 32 shows, it first checks if the passcode exists. If not, the malware execution procedure will
terminate. In our collection, we observed different passcodes in each malware.
Figure 32. Passcode check routine in NUPAKAGE
SHA256
Passcode
634977a24e8fb2e3e82a0cddfe8d007375d387415eb131cce74ca03e0e93565f
notebook
c835577f1ddf66a957dd0f92599f45cb67e7f3ea4e073a98df962fc3d9a3fbe0
comeon
2937580b16e70f82e27cfbc3524c2661340b8814794cc15cb0d534f5312db0e0
update
c2f5a12ebaeb39d4861e4c3b35253e68e6d5dc78f8598d74bc85db21aeb504e8
comeon
Table 4. Passcodes in NUPAKAGE
After execution, NUPAKAGE will drop two files, xxx.zip and xxx.z. The file xxx.zip is a logging file with a
fake ZIP header prepended at offset 0x0 and taking up the first 0x100 bytes. Starting from the offset
0x100, the logging strings are encrypted with a single byte in XOR operations as shown Figure 33.
23/42
24/42
Figure 33. The original logging file (top), with plain text revealed in the decrypted logging file
(bottom)
Taking one of the execution results as an example, much of the information of the exfiltrated data is
saved, including the original file path, the original file size, and the compressed file size. We believe that
the threat actors use it to further track which files have been processed. For security researchers, this
logging file also helps reveal how much data is exfiltrated and provides information on the impact scope.
[+] Program ready!
[+] FILE ORIGINAL PATH: C:\Program Files (x86)\Adobe\Acrobat Reader DC\Reader\1494870C-9912-
C184-4CC9-B401-A53F4D8DE290.pdf
[+] FILE PATH SIZE: 198

[+] FILE ORIGINAL SIZE: 186837
[+] FILE COMPRESSED SIZE: 183734

[+] FILE ORIGINAL PATH: C:\Program Files (x86)\Adobe\Acrobat Reader DC\Reader\Click on ‘Change’
to select default PDF handler.pdf

[+] FILE PATH SIZE: 210
[+] FILE ORIGINAL SIZE: 186837

[+] FILE COMPRESSED SIZE: 183734
... 

<omitted>
...

[*] File or folder access denied!
[*] File or folder access denied!

[+] All completed!
The file with a .z extension is a blob of exfiltrated data within a self-defined file format. The NUPAKAGE
malware first generates a key blob randomly, with the key being encrypted in a custom algorithm. After, it
stores the encrypted key blob into the first 0x80 bytes of the file with the .z extension. Starting from the
offset 0x80, there exists a long array of all the exfiltrated data.
25/42
Much of the information from the exfiltrated files are saved, such as the MD5 hash, the length of the file
name, the compressed file size, the original file size, the file name, and the file’s content. To separate the
file blobs, it puts a unique byte sequence at the end of each, 55 55 55 55 AA AA AA AA FF FF FF FF 99
99 99 99.
Figure 34. Self-defined format in the file with the .z extension generated by NUPAKAGE
26/42
Table 5. Self-defined format description in the file with the .z extension generated by
NUPAKAGE
It’s also worth mentioning that in the more recent versions of NUPAKAGE, an increasing number of
obfuscations are being adopted to thwart static analysis.
Figure 35. Junk codes in more recent versions of NUPAKAGE
HackTool.Win32.ZPAKAGE
27/42
ZPAKAGE is another example of custom malware used for packing files; it also works similarly to
NUPAKAGE. It also needs a passcode to ensure that it is being used as intended. In the example shown
in Figure 36, the passcode is “start”.
Figure 36. An example of a ZPAKAGE password
ZPAKAGE also supports command-line arguments, but it possesses less functions than NUPAKAGE.
The usage of this tool is shown as follows:
malware.exe passcode time
Argument Name
Format
Example Value
Description
Passcode
String
start
A unique code in order to execute it
Time
String
20221221
The start date
Table 6. Arguments supported by ZPAKAGE
ZPAKAGE also shows similar behaviors to NUPAKAGE. For instance, it also avoids files with names
starting with “$” or “~”. In addition, it generates two files, one with a .z extension and another with a .zip
extension. The file with a .z extension is the exfiltrated data blob and the file with a .zip extension is the
logging file.
In the generated file with a .z extension, the exfiltrated files will be compressed by the zlib algorithm to
minimize the file size. It also defines a Boolean field “type” for storage, whether a file is compressed or
not. If a file is compressed and its file size is less than the original one, the type will be 1. Otherwise, the
type will be set to 0, and the original file content will be chosen instead of the compressed one.
Regardless of whether the file content is compressed or not, it will be encrypted in XOR operations with a
specific string, qwerasdf.
28/42
Figure 37. Self-defined format in the file with .z extension generated by ZPAKAGE
Table 7. Self-defined format description in the file with the .z extension generated by
ZPAKAGE
29/42
Threat hunting
Since October 2022, the threat actors have changed their TTPs and have started using password-
protected archives. For example, we found a TONEINS sample (SHA256:
8b98e8669d1ba49b66c07199638ae6012adf7d5d93c1ca3bf31d6329506da58a) on VirusTotal that can’t
be linked to any other file in the “Relations” tab. However, we observed two files that have been opened
in the “Behaviors” tab with the file names ~$Evidence information.docx and ~$List of terrorist personnel
at the border.docx. As mentioned in the arrival vectors section, the next stage payloads are normally
embedded in the fake document files. 
Figure 38. Opened files of TONEINS sample
Figure 39 shows the search results for the query “List of terrorist personnel at the border” on VirusTotal.
The first file is the TONEINS DLL sample that we mentioned earlier in this section, while the second file is
a benign executable file originally named adobe_licensing_wf_helper.exe, which was apparently
uploaded to VirusTotal with the file name List of terrorist personnel at the border.exe.
Figure 39. Search result for the string List of terrorist personnel at the border on VirusTotal
30/42
Figure 40. Submission of adobe_licensing_wf_helper.exe
The third file is a password-protected archive, which has the exact same file name, List of terrorist
personnel at the border[1].rar. Unfortunately, we didn’t have the password, so we were unable to
decompress it. But it has an interesting execution parent in the “Relations” tab, which is a document file
named Letter Head.docx.
Figure 41. Execution parent of List of terrorist personnel at the border[1].rar
Inside the document Letter Head.docx, there is a Google Drive link and a password. The content itself is
related to the Government of the Republic of the Union of Myanmar, and is written in Burmese.
31/42
Figure 42. Letter Head.docx
Upon checking the download link, we discovered that it was the same password-protected archive file
that we found on VirusTotal earlier.
Figure 43. Screenshot of the Google Drive link
The new arrival vector flow is similar to the one we introduced in the arrival vector section: Victims will
receive and interact with a decoy document containing a Google Drive link and a corresponding
password instead of an archive download link embedded in the email.
As for why the password-protected archive has the execution parent, upon checking the sandbox
execution behaviors of Letter Head.docx on VirusTotal, we discovered that the VirusTotal sandbox will
32/42
select any link embedded in the document. This leads to the opening of an Internet Explorer window with
the file download prompt.
Figure 44. Sandbox screenshot of the file Letter Head.docx on VirusTotal
When the download prompt is shown, Internet Explorer will silently download this file in the background
even before the user selects the “Save” button.
As a result, the file will be saved to the cache folder named “INetCache,” after which we see a dropped
RAR file:
C:\Users\user\AppData\Local\Microsoft\Windows\I

NetCache\IE\R0IAZP7Z\List%20of%20terrorist

%20personnel%20at%20the%20border[1].rar.
Since the RAR file is downloaded automatically by Internet Explorer, Letter Head.docx will be treated as
its execution parent. This sample can then be used for hunting this campaign.
33/42
Figure 45. The dropped files of Letter Head.docx on VirusTotal
To find additional password-protected archives and documents embedded with a Google Drive link, we
tried to use the following query:
tag:rar tag:encrypted name:INetCache size:500kb+
The query finds any encrypted RAR archive with a large enough file size containing the folder name
“INetCache” in its path. Fortunately, we found another RAR file with the document execution parent
“Notic(20221010)(final).docx” that turned out to be a TONESHELL archive.
Figure 46. Relations of the archive file
34/42
Figure 47. Content of the file Notic(20221010)(final).docx
It’s interesting to note that the threat actors use date and time strings written in the same format (DD-MM-
YYYY) as the extracting passwords in all the cases we’ve collected so far.
Connecting the dots
During our investigation, we observed some data points that connect to the same personnel. For
example, we found a specific name “TaoZongjie” among the different malware samples we collected. In
addition, the GitHub repository named “YanNaingOo0072022,” mentioned in Avast’s December 2022
report,￼hosted multiple pieces of malware, including TONESHELL. We also observed that the obfuscation
methods have similarities among the different malwares.
User “TaoZongjie”
We found some samples sharing the same special string/name “TaoZongjie,” including the Cobalt Strike
malware, a Windows user on a TONESHELL C&C server, and the displayed message in the pop-up
dialog box of TONESHELL.
Our investigation started with the TONESHELL C&C server 38[.]54[.]33[.]228 that had the remote
desktop service enabled. Here, we found that one of the Windows users was called “TaoZongjie.”
35/42
Figure 48. Windows users in 38[.]54[.]33[.]228
While hunting samples related to this campaign, we came across a tweet about Cobalt Strike posted in
April 2021. At first glance, Cobalt Strike was used in a manner similar to this campaign, including the use
of DLL sideloading, the use of a Google Drive link for delivery, and the creation of a schedule task.
36/42
Figure 49. A tweet about Cobalt Strike
The infection flow is as follows: The archive file is delivered through a Google Drive link, which contains a
legitimate EXE file, a malicious DLL file, and a decoy document written in Burmese. Once the malicious
DLL is sideloaded, it will drop the legitimate EXE file and the malicious DLL file, which are embedded in
the resource section of the DLL file. In this sample, the string By:Taozongjie is being used as the event
name.
37/42
Figure 50. Infection flow of Cobalt Strike
38/42
Figure 51. Special string in the sample
In one TONEINS sample (SHA256:
7436f75911561434153d899100916d3888500b1737ca6036e41e0f65a8a68707), we also observed the
string taozongjie, which was being used for an event name.
Figure 52. Create event taozongjie in TONEINS
In another TONESHELL sample (SHA256:
d950d7d9402dcf014d6e77d30ddd81f994b70f7b0c6931ff1e705abe122a481a), there are some
insignificant export functions, which will appear via message boxes, with the strings Tao or zhang!. Even
though the names of these two strings are not spelled exactly same way as taozongjie, their spellings are
still similar.
39/42
Figure 53. Message boxes of TONESHELL
Based on what we found among the different samples, we assume that taozongjie could be one of the
flags used by the threat actors.
GitHub user “YanNaingOo0072022”
The GitHub user “YanNaingOo0072022” was mentioned in both an Avast and an ESET report. The user’s
repositories host various malware, including the latest versions of TONEINS, TONESHELL, and a new
tool, QMAGENT, which is ESET named MQsTTang”. At the time of writing, this GitHub space was still
accessible, with five repositories: “View2015,” “View2016,” “1226,” “ee,” and “14.” Among these,
“View2015” and “View2016” were empty.
Figure 54. The YanNaingOo0072022 GitHub space
1226
The archive files in this repository are all the same but have different file names. We believe that these
files were meant for different victims. 
40/42
Figure 55. The 1226 repository
Upon unarchiving the compressed file, we found two files with the fake extension “.doc” containing one-
byte XOR encrypted sections. Both share the same file structure (a PE payload hidden in a DOCX file) as
the one we referred to in the arrival vectors section. These files ended up being the TONEINS and
TONESHELL malware. 
Figure 56. The files inside the archive
14
The file Documents members of delegation diplomatic from Germany.Exe, found in the Documents.rar
archive, is a novel malware that communicates over the MQTT protocol. In March 2023, ESET published
a detailed technical report on this backdoor, which it named “MQsTTang.”
Beginning in January, we discovered that MQsTTang was being used as the new arrival vector in some of
incidents we encountered, specifically in campaigns targeting individuals involved with government
entities. This backdoor is unique because it communicates to its C&C servers over the MQTT protocol,
which is commonly used in internet-of-things (IoT) devices. Malicious actors using this technique can
effectively hide the real C&C server behind the protocol.
41/42
Figure 57. The 14 repository
ee
The file CVs Amb Office PASSPORT Ministry Of Foreign Affairs.exe, which is the malware QMAGENT,
can be found in the CVs Amb.rar archive. 
Figure 58. The ee repository
Conclusion
Over the past year, security researchers have been discovering and analyzing Earth Preta’s campaigns
and toolsets.  We were able to attribute some of these to Earth Preta based on similarities among the
TTPs, the malware being used, and the timeline of the campaigns. Starting October 2022, the threat
actors changed the arrival vector of the TONEINS, TONESHELL, and PUBLOAD malware. Instead of
attaching malicious archives or Google Drive links to an email, they now embed the download link in
another decoy document and add a password to the archive.
Based on our observations, Earth Preta tends to hide malicious payloads in fake files, disguising them as
legitimate ones — a technique that has been proven effective for avoiding detection. As for privilege
escalation, the threat actors tend to reuse codes copied from open-source repositories. Meanwhile, they
developed customized toolsets designed to collect confidential documents in the exfiltration stage.
Overall, we believe that Earth Preta is a capable and organized threat actor that is continuously honing its
TTPs, strengthening its development capabilities, and building a versatile arsenal of tools and malware.
To help prevent potential threats such as the one posed by advanced persistent threat (APT) groups, we
suggest that organizations conduct phishing awareness training for their employees and partners to
stress the importance of caution when opening emails, particularly those messages from unfamiliar
senders or with unknown subjects.
42/42
To assist organizations in protecting themselves against sophisticated threats, we recommend adopting a
comprehensive security strategy that employs advanced technologies capable of identifying and halting
such threats across multiple channels, including endpoints, servers, networks, and email
communications.
Indicators of Compromise (IOCs)
The full list of IOCs can be found here.
MITRE ATT&CK
Tactic
ID
Name
Resource Development
T1583.004
Acquire Infrastructure: Server
T1587.001
Develop Capabilities: Malware
T1585.002
Establish Accounts: Email Accounts
T1588.002
Obtain Capabilities: Tool
T1608.001
Stage Capabilities: Upload Malware
Initial Access
T1566.002
Phishing: Spearphishing Link
Execution
T1204.001
User Execution: Malicious Link
T1204.002
User Execution: Malicious File
Persistence
T1547.001
Boot or Logon Autostart Execution: Registry Run Keys /
Startup Folder
T1574.002
Hijack Execution Flow: DLL Side-Loading
T1053.005
Scheduled Task/Job: Scheduled Task
Privilege Escalation
T1068
Exploitation for Privilege Escalation
T1134
Access Token Manipulation
Defense Evasion
T1140
Deobfuscate/Decode Files or Information
T1036.005
Masquerading: Match Legitimate Name or Location
Lateral Movement
T1091
Replication Through Removable Media
Command and Control
T1071.001
Application Layer Protocol: Web Protocols
T1573.001
Encrypted Channel: Symmetric Cryptography
T1104
Multi-Stage Channels
T1095
Non-Application Layer Protocol
Exfiltration
T1048
Exfiltration Over Alternative Protocol
Tags
