Threat Intelligence | OceanLotus uses social security topics
as bait to conduct APT attacks
Author: Know Chuangyu 404 Advanced Threat Intelligence Team
Time: July 9, 2024
1 Overview
Recently, the Advanced Threat Intelligence Team of Zhichuangyu 404 discovered an
attack sample targeted by the OceanLotus organization. The sample used words such
as social security and provident fund adjustment to attract victims to click. At the
same time, we found that this sample was similar to the OceanLotus APT organization
discovered in 2023, which imitated APT29 attacks. Activity analysis is very consistent.
2. Organizational background
OceanLotus, also known as APT32, is an advanced persistent threat (APT) organiza‐
tion that has been active since 2012 and mainly targets government agencies, compa‐
nies, media and activists in East and Southeast Asia. The organization has diverse at‐
tack methods and possesses a large number of self-developed weapons. It often com‐
bines open source tools at diﬀerent stages of attack activities to achieve attack goals.
3. Sample chain
The sample chain is shown below:
404 Advanced Threat Intelligence
July 9, 2024 11:16
Original
Know Chuangyu 404 Laboratory
4. Sample Overview
The sample found this time is called "Notice on Adjustment and Reduction of Social
Security, Occupational Annuity, and Provident Fund Payment Bases.docx" (hereinafter
referred to as the bait ﬁle). The bait ﬁle has four built-in contents, namely lnk param‐
eters, hta script, The four parts of the dropper program and bait document cooperate
with each other to achieve the set functional goals.
LNK ﬁle properties
The overall command ﬂow is to execute the hta ﬁle with the lnk parameter, the hta
ﬁle executes the dropper program & decoy document, the dropper decrypts and loads
the shellcode and executes the ﬁnal Cobalt_Strike RAT program. The function details
of each part are described as follows:
4.1 LNK ﬁles
The LNK ﬁle is the original payload and is used to start the overall release chain. The
CMD command is executed through ShellExec. The CMD command function in the
LNK ﬁle is:
1. Make sure that 360 Security Guard related ﬁles do not exist
2. Copy itself to NTUSER.DAT{23e7c2f3-52ef-4b7b-b203-3bfaa90a833d}.TM.al‐
f and start it through mshta.exe. The copy logic is divided into two types, and
different execution logic is distinguished according to whether there is an
LNK file with the original file name. If the LNK file with the original file name
exists, copy it directly; if the LNK file with the original file name does not ex‐
ist, traverse %USERPROFILE% the path to find the LNK file with the original
file name, and then copy the file to it NTUSER.DAT{23e7c2f3-52ef-4b7b-
b203-3bfaa90a833d}.TM.alf and start it through mshta.exe. The distinguish‐
ing code in this section can be used to detect the following functions:
(1) Whether the ﬁle name has been changed
(2) Maybe the original landing ﬁle is in %USERPROFILE% the path
LNK ﬁle parameters
4.2 NTUSER.DAT{23e7c2f3-52ef-4b7b-b203-3bfaa90a833d}.TM.alf
This ﬁle is stored at the end of the LNK ﬁle and is started by the mshta.exe program.
Based on the behavior, it is guessed that mshta.exe starts the HTA by locating the
mark point, so there is no need to extract the HTA ﬁle to start the HTA ﬁle.
The HTA ﬁle has four functions: locating and saving the dropper program, locating
and saving the decoy document, running the decoy document, and repairing the drop‐
per program. Each functional module is described as follows:
1. Locate and save the dropper program
First load itself (NTUSER.DAT{23e7c2f3-52ef-4b7b-b203-3bfaa90a833d}.TM.alf) and
set the ﬁle cursor to oﬀset：11742 read 249374 size data, save the read data to %ap‐
pdata%\Lenovo\devicecenter\extends\modules\showdesk\LenovoDesk.exe , then read
1032190 size data and save it to %appdata%\Lenovo\devicecenter\extends\mod‐
ules\showdesk\QuickDeskBand.dll .
Set the cursor and read the dropper content & document content
dropper program starting address
2. Locate and save the bait document
Save the dropper's subsequent data to the local computer %temp%\关于社保、职业年
⾦、公积⾦缴存基数调整和补扣的通知.docx and start the ﬁle.
Decoy ﬁle oﬀset
3. Repair dropper program
Repair dropper program
4.3 Bait documents
Part of the bait document is as follows:
4.4 dropper&COBALT_STRIKE RAT
The previously saved dropper program is used to decrypt and start Cobalt_Strike. The
startup of the dropper program is implemented in the parameter part of lnk.
Start white ﬁle
Functions QuickDeskBand.dll loaded after the white ﬁle (LenovoDesk.exe) is run
. ShowBatteryGauge
Load black ﬁles
After the black ﬁle is loaded, it is run in dllmain to decrypt the subsequent payload.
When ShowBatteryGauge exports its main function, LenovoDesk.exe is written into
the registry run startup item:
Set run startup items
After QuickDeskBand.dll is loaded, it will inevitably enter dllMain to run. In dllMain,
the main program path is ﬁrst obtained, and the last 15 characters are used as the
key to decrypt the data.
Decrypt data using ﬁle name as key
The decrypted data is IP dotted decimal data. By RtlIpv4StringToAddressA converting
the dotted decimal IP address into data in HEX address form, the data in HEX ad‐
dress form is COBALT_STRIKE data. Then Cobalt_Strike is started immediately by
setting the callback of the enumeration font.
Decode CS data
Cobalt_Strike is a paid penetration testing product that allows attackers to deploy an
agent called "Beacon" on the victim machine. Beacons provide attackers with a rich
set of capabilities, including but not limited to command execution, keystroke log‐
ging, ﬁle transfers, SOCKS proxies, privilege escalation, mimikatz, port scanning, and
lateral movement. Beacon is in-memory/ﬁleless in that it consists of stageless or
multi-stage shellcode that, once loaded by exploiting a vulnerability or executing a
shellcode loader, reﬂexively loads itself into the process's memory without touching
it. disk.
Supports C2 and segmentation over HTTP, HTTPS, DNS, SMB named pipes, and for‐
ward and reverse TCP, and beacons can be daisy-chained. Cobalt Strike comes with a
toolkit for developing shellcode loaders called Artifact Kit.
Due to the powerful functions and compatibility of this platform, many APT organiza‐
tions also include CS in their arsenal. In previous APT32 attack activities, we often
found that they used CS as a RAT program.
The ﬁnal CS Beacon of the two LNK ﬁles is the same and the related key conﬁgura‐
tion information is as follows:
From the Metadata metadata, it can be found that its HTTP Header is forged around
dhgate.
• Host: www.dhgate.com
• Host: shoppingcart.dhgate.com
5. Summary
From the above sample analysis, we can ﬁnd that the sample captured this time is
consistent in many aspects with the attack activities launched by the organization us‐
ing the BMW topic as bait in 2023.
First, the lnk parameter format is very consistent.
Sample parameter analysis and comparison
Secondly, the conﬁguration ﬁles of Cobalt Strike are relatively consistent. Except for
the URL, the disguised host is also the same.
Conﬁguration ﬁle comparison
In summary, we believe that the samples captured this time and the attack samples
used by the OceanLotus organization using BMW bait in 2023 should belong to the
same organization.
6. IOC
Hash :
• f04971c65d68319fbe1285b4a83afed6 QuickDeskBand.dll
• 2d6b3b3e13600721fc9f398cd7df05ca Bait Document
7. Reference links
[1]  Analysis of OceanLotus APT organization imitating APT29 attack activities
