1/2
mzv.gov.cz
/jnp/en/issues_and_press/press_releases/statement_of_the_mfa_on_the_cyberattacks.html
Statement of the MFA on the Cyberattacks Carried by
Russian Actor APT28 on Czechia
03.05.2024 / 10:53 | Aktualizováno:
03.05.2024 / 11:54
Czechia jointly with Germany, the European Union, NATO and international partners strongly condemns
activities of the Russian state-controlled actor APT28, who has been conducting a long-term cyber
espionage campaign in European countries. APT28 is associated with Russian military intelligence
service GRU.
Based on information from intelligence services, some Czech institutions have also been the target of
cyber attacks exploiting a previously unknown vulnerability in Microsoft Outlook from 2023. The mode of
operation and the focus of these attacks matched the profile of the actor APT28.
Affected subjects were offered technical recommendations and cooperation to enhance security
measures. The actor APT28 has also been the subject to active measures in Czechia as part of the
global operation Dying Ember.
Czechia has long been targeted by the APT28. Such activities are in violation of the UN norms of
responsible state behaviour in cyberspace and other international commitments. In the context of the
upcoming European elections, national elections in a number of European countries and the ongoing
Russian aggression against Ukraine, these acts are particularly serious and reprehensible. We call on the
Russian Federation to refrain from such actions.
2/2
Cyber attacks targeting political entities, state institutions and critical infrastructure are not only a threat to
national security, but also disrupt the democratic processes on which our free society is based. Czech
authorities will continue to take steps to strengthen the resilience of public institutions and the private
sector.
Czechia is deeply concerned by these repeated cyber attacks by state actors. We are determined to
respond strongly to this unacceptable behaviour together with our European and international partners.
