(eset):research
Threat 
H2 2023
June 2023 – November 2023
Report
ESET THREAT REPORT
H2 2023 | 2
Contents
Foreword
4
Threat landscape trends 
5
SpinOk spinning the definition of Android spyware
6
Who killed Mozi?
9
Abusing the ChatGPT name for malicious domains
12
Lumma Stealer takes the cryptostealer threat landscape by storm
14
Android TV boxes under fire: Pandora builds a botnet for DDoS attacks
16
Magecart, the ever-present phantom haunting e-commerce 
18
Website visitors under siege by malicious scripts
21
Cl0p and its MOVEit hack: A mass-spreading yet targeted attack
23
Threat telemetry
26
Research publications
39
About this report
41
About ESET
42
ESET THREAT REPORT
H2 2023 | 3
Threat landscape trends
Threat telemetry
Research publications
About this report
About ESET
Foreword
Executive summary
Executive summary
SpinOk spinning the definition of Android spyware
SDK or spyware? A significant number of legitimate Android apps started to behave as 
spyware; the reason is a third-party software development kit. 
Who killed Mozi?
ESET researchers discovered and analyzed a kill switch that had taken down one of the most 
prolific IoT botnets.
Abusing the ChatGPT name for malicious domains
A new economy has arisen around OpenAI API keys and the ChatGPT name, luring legitimate 
participants and cybercriminals alike.
Lumma Stealer takes the cryptostealer threat landscape by storm
Illicit cryptomining may be on its way out, but Lumma Stealer’s success shows that 
cryptowallets remain in the sights of cybercriminals.
Android TV boxes under fire: Pandora builds a botnet for DDoS attacks
A new Mirai-based threat uses malicious streaming apps to enslave devices in Latin America.
Magecart, the ever-present phantom haunting e-commerce 
It seems there is never a prolonged period without notable Magecart attacks and H2 2023 
was no exception. 
Website visitors under siege by malicious scripts
The rise in JS/Agent detections reveals that almost 45,000 websites have fallen victim to 
malicious JavaScript code.
Cl0p and its MOVEit hack: A mass-spreading yet targeted attack
How exploitation of a two-year-old zero day by one actor caused a global cybersecurity 
nightmare.
Android
IoT
Web threats
AI
Botnets
Botnets
Android
IoT
Infostealers
Malware-as-a-Service
Cryptocurrency threats
Web threats
Infostealers
Web threats
Ransomware
H2 2023 | 4
Threat landscape trends
Threat telemetry
Research publications
About this report
About ESET
Foreword
Executive summary
Foreword
The second half of 2023 witnessed significant cybersecurity 
incidents. Cl0p, a notorious cybercriminal group known for 
carrying out ransomware attacks on a major scale, garnered 
attention through its extensive “MOVEit hack”, which surprisingly 
did not involve ransomware deployment. The attack targeted 
numerous organizations, including global corporations and US 
governmental agencies. A key shift in Cl0p’s strategy was its 
move to leak stolen information to open worldwide web sites 
in cases where the ransom was not paid, a trend also seen 
with the ALPHV ransomware gang. Other new strategies in 
the ransomware scene, according to the FBI, have included the 
simultaneous deployment of multiple ransomware variants and 
the use of wipers following data theft and encryption.
In the IoT landscape, our researchers have made a notable 
discovery. They have identified a kill switch that had been used 
to successfully render the Mozi IoT botnet nonfunctional. It is 
worth mentioning that the Mozi botnet is one of the largest 
of its kind we have monitored over the past three years. The 
nature of Mozi’s sudden downfall raises the question of whether 
the kill switch was used by the botnet creators or Chinese law 
enforcement. A new threat, Android/Pandora, surfaced in the 
same landscape, compromising Android devices – including 
smart TVs, TV boxes, and mobile devices – and utilizing them 
for DDoS attacks.
Amidst the prevalent discussion regarding AI-enabled attacks, 
we have identified specific campaigns targeting users of 
tools like ChatGPT. We also noticed a considerable number of 
attempts to access malicious domains with names resembling 
“chapgpt”, seemingly in reference to the ChatGPT chatbot. 
Threats encountered via these domains also include web apps 
that insecurely handle OpenAI API keys, emphasizing the 
importance of protecting the privacy of your OpenAI API keys.
We have also observed a significant increase in Android spyware 
cases, mainly attributed to the presence of the SpinOk spyware. 
This malicious software is distributed as a software development 
kit and is found within various legitimate Android applications. 
On a different front, one of the most recorded threats in H2 2023 
is three-year-old malicious JavaScript code detected as ​JS/Agent, 
which continues to be loaded by compromised websites. 
Similarly, Magecart, a threat that goes after credit card data, 
has continued to grow for two years by targeting myriads of 
unpatched websites. In all three of these cases, the attacks could 
have been prevented if developers and admins had implemented 
appropriate security measures.
Lastly, the increasing value of bitcoin has not been accompanied 
by a corresponding increase in cryptocurrency threats, diverging 
from past trends. However, cryptostealers have seen a notable 
increase, caused by the rise of the malware-as-a-service (MaaS) 
infostealer Lumma Stealer, which targets cryptocurrency wallets. 
These developments show an ever-evolving cybersecurity 
landscape, with threat actors using a wide range of tactics.
I wish you an insightful read.
Jiří Kropáč
ESET Director of Threat Detection
Welcome to the H2 2023 issue of the ESET Threat Report!
H2 2023 | 5
Threat landscape trends
Threat telemetry
Research publications
About this report
About ESET
Foreword
Executive summary
Threat 
landscape 
trends 
ESET THREAT REPORT
H2 2023 | 6
Threat landscape trends
Threat telemetry
Research publications
About this report
About ESET
Foreword
Executive summary
SpinOk spinning the definition of Android 
spyware
Android
SDK or spyware? A significant number of legitimate Android apps started to behave as 
spyware; the reason is a third-party software development kit.
During the second half of 2023, ESET telemetry reported 
a significant surge in Android Spyware detections, 
rising by 89%. This increase was primarily due to a 
mobile marketing software development kit (SDK), 
identified as SpinOk Spyware by ESET. Surprisingly, 
this SDK was incorporated into numerous legitimate 
Android applications, including many available 
on official app marketplaces. As a result, SpinOk 
Spyware climbed to seventh place in the Top 10 Android 
detections for H2 2023, becoming the most prevalent 
type of Spyware for the period – almost a third of 
all Spyware detections seen by ESET telemetry 
consisted of SpinOk.
Apps in which ESET and other cybersecurity vendors 
detect the SpinOk spyware contain a specific version 
of a mobile marketing SDK provided by a company 
named OKSpin. SDKs can be integrated into mobile 
apps to aid developers and marketers in collecting user 
data, analyzing user behavior, delivering personalized 
content, and executing other marketing strategies. In 
this instance, the OKSpin SDK offered app developers 
a gaming platform intended to monetize app traffic. 
Developers could embed it into a wide variety of 
apps and games, including those on official Android 
marketplaces. However, once an app with that OKSpin 
SDK is installed, it operates like spyware, connecting to 
a command-and-control server and extracting a range 
of data from the device, including potentially sensitive 
clipboard contents. 
SpinOk also identifies emulated environments: it 
does so by analyzing data collected from the device’s 
gyroscope and magnetometer. If it determines that it is 
Android/SpinOK detection trend in H2 2023, seven-day moving average
ESET THREAT REPORT
H2 2023 | 7
Threat landscape trends
Threat telemetry
Research publications
About this report
About ESET
Foreword
Executive summary
in a virtualized environment, it changes its behavior to 
avoid detection by sandboxes and researchers.
Cybersecurity company Doctor Web identified 101 
apps containing the SpinOk Spyware on Google Play, 
and although all of them were taken down from 
this platform, ESET telemetry continued to detect a 
significant number of such apps installed on Android 
devices worldwide. After Doctor Web’s findings were 
published, OKSpin updated its module. 
The question remains, how did an SDK behaving as 
spyware find its way into so many apps, installed over 
421 million times? Despite its significant presence in 
the mobile marketing sphere, OKSpin maintains a low-
profile online presence. The company does not offer 
any contact details on its website, but we were able 
to find it registered in Hong Kong. Its given address is 
shared by a multitude of other companies, all claiming 
to occupy the same room within the same office 
building in Hong Kong. This suggests that OKSpin 
operates as a letterbox company and its address is 
used only for receiving mail and creating a semblance 
of physical presence in Hong Kong, while the actual 
business operations may be conducted elsewhere. 
Adding to the intrigue, in the Offshore Leaks report, 
which exposed international tax fraud, there is a 
company registered in a room adjacent to OKSpin’s 
claimed location.
A representative from an app that used the SDK 
provided by OKSpin shared their experience, shedding 
light on how the SDK found its way into numerous 
applications. According to the representative, their 
initial contact with OKSpin was through a business 
development agent who proposed a “revenue growth 
program”. The app developer confessed to failing to 
conduct thorough due diligence: they did not properly 
assess the third-party SDK before incorporating it 
into their app, which led to their legitimate app being 
removed from Google Play. Following the removal 
of the SDK, they then had to navigate a protracted 
process to have their app reinstated on the platform.
The case of SpinOk highlights a prevalent issue where 
a typical user downloading an app from an official 
store may not be able to discern whether the app 
contains malware or potentially unwanted elements. 
In such scenarios, a cybersecurity app is a valuable 
tool for detecting potential threats. Furthermore, this 
case serves as a cautionary tale for app developers, 
underscoring the risks associated with hasty and 
uninformed integration of third-party technology, 
which can disrupt their revenue stream and 
potentially lead to complications with their standing 
on official app stores.
The described surge of detections in the Spyware 
category, driven by SpinOk, stood out against the 
backdrop of a general decline in the detection of 
other Android threats, and is responsible for the 
overall rise of Android detections in H2 2023 by 22%. 
Adware, a constant threat in the Android environment, 
contributed to 36% of total detections in H2. This 
enduring prevalence of Adware can be traced to the 
pervasive use of free mobile games, which are often 
laden with intrusive ads. Clickers exhibited a significant 
upward trend, with an increase of 63% in detections. 
The rise in Clickers can also be linked to the growing 
distribution of apps loaded with ads, a strategy 
proving to be lucrative for cybercriminals. Nonetheless, 
HiddenApps remained the most widespread Android 
detection, even though there was a small decline of 3% in 
their detection rate. The only other category that recorded 
an increase in detections was Stalkerware, by 5%.
Examples of various apps containing the SDK that behaves as spyware
ESET THREAT REPORT
H2 2023 | 8
Threat landscape trends
Threat telemetry
Research publications
About this report
About ESET
Foreword
Executive summary
Adware, Clickers, and HiddenApps represent distinct Android detection 
types, each exploiting advertisements in unique ways. Adware primarily 
functions by displaying unsolicited ads on a user’s device. In contrast, 
HiddenApps cleverly conceal themselves on a device post installation and 
can execute various malicious – or at least unwanted –  activities, including 
the display of intrusive ads. Clickers, on the other hand, are designed 
to fraudulently generate ad revenue through automated ad-clicking, 
unbeknownst to the user. This differentiation explains the distinction 
between Hiddad trojan and Hiddad PUA, both listed in the Top 10 Android 
detections in H2 2023. While Hiddad trojan falls under the HiddenApps 
category, Hiddad PUA is classified as a potentially unwanted application 
(PUA). Despite their similarities, these two detections exhibit slightly 
different behaviors on Android devices.
Financial threats, which encompass Banking malware and Cryptostealers, 
recorded a 14% decrease, thus continuing their downward trajectory from 
H1 2023. The second half of 2023 also saw a considerable decrease in 
detections of SMS threats (23%), Ransomware (22%), Cryptominers (10%), 
and ScamApps (9%). 
EXPERT COMMENT
The SpinOk case serves as a reminder for app developers 
about the need for caution when deciding to incorporate 
third-party technology into their apps. It’s common for 
developers to be approached by third-party tech providers, 
but it’s crucial to evaluate these technologies thoroughly to 
ensure that they are secure and suitable for their apps.
Ensuring the security of an SDK involves a series of 
steps, starting with a comprehensive investigation of the 
provider’s reliability. This involves understanding the SDK’s 
functionality, examining its documentation, and, if feasible, 
scrutinizing the source code for any anomalies. Developers 
should utilize static analysis tools to unearth unwanted 
behavior and potential vulnerabilities, and keep an eye on 
network traffic to spot any unexpected data transfers. 
They can also scan their own apps with reputable security 
products after a test integration with the third-party SDK 
under consideration. It’s advantageous to verify whether the 
SDK or its provider has any security certifications or audits, 
and feedback from developer forums or groups should be 
considered. Prior to integrating an SDK into apps, we advise 
developers to conduct a test in a safe environment to assess 
its behavior and performance. Remember, integrating an 
SDK into your app gives it access to all of your app’s data, so 
if resources for such evaluations are lacking, it’s best to avoid 
using third-party SDKs.
Lukáš Štefanko, ESET Senior Malware Researcher
ESET THREAT REPORT
H2 2023 | 9
Threat landscape trends
Threat telemetry
Research publications
About this report
About ESET
Foreword
Executive summary
Who killed Mozi?
IoT Botnets
ESET researchers discovered and analyzed a kill switch that had taken down one of the most 
prolific IoT botnets.
For over two years, we’ve been writing in ESET Threat 
Reports about the Mozi IoT botnet, reporting mostly 
on its gradual descent on autopilot. In August 2023, 
the botnet experienced an unanticipated nosedive 
in activity. First, it vanished from the radar in India 
(on August 8, 2023) and then a week later in China 
(August 16) – countries that hosted the lion’s share of 
the enslaved devices. Our deeper analysis showed that 
this was a deliberate takedown that could have been 
done by only two entities.
The originators of the Mozi botnet were apprehended 
by Chinese law enforcement in July 2021. Since then, 
the botnet continued exploiting vulnerabilities and 
infesting hundreds of thousands of new IoT devices 
each year but, unsurprisingly, there was no apparent 
use of the aggregated network and no updates to the 
Mozi bot code being propagated across it. 
Mozi mostly compromises vulnerable Netgear DGN 
devices (EDB-25978), DASAN Networks GPON home 
routers (CVE-2018-10562), D-Link routers (CVE-2015-
2051), and Jaws web servers (EDB-41471), but its 
spreading powers eroded over time. Between January 
and April 2022, the botnet added almost 500,000 
new and unique minions, mostly from China and India. 
In the following four months that number already 
dropped to 383,000 and in the last third of 2022, it slid 
again to just 289,000 new bots. 
This trend could theoretically continue until Mozi 
couldn’t find any more devices to compromise. But it’s 
downfall came much faster. In August 2023, Mozi bots 
unexpectedly stopped propagating and the number of 
unique IPs seen within our honeypots had nosedived 
by 89% within a few days. 
Our investigation into the sudden collapse led us to 
the discovery of a control payload (a configuration file) 
that worked as a kill switch. Upon delivery, it stopped 
all attempts to propagate the malware further and 
stripped Mozi bots of most of their functionality. 
Code snippets of the original Mozi sample (left) vs kill switch sample seen in 2023 (right)
ESET THREAT REPORT
H2 2023 | 10
Threat landscape trends
Threat telemetry
Research publications
About this report
About ESET
Foreword
Executive summary
Mozi timeline
ESET THREAT REPORT
H2 2023 | 11
Threat landscape trends
Threat telemetry
Research publications
About this report
About ESET
Foreword
Executive summary
ESET researchers first spotted the kill switch inside a user 
datagram protocol (UDP) message, which was missing 
the typical encapsulation of BitTorrent’s distributed 
sloppy hash table (BT-DHT) protocol. The person behind 
the takedown sent the control payload eight times 
to each available bot, always instructing the device to 
download and install an update of itself via HTTP. 
The control payload also demonstrated several other 
functions such as killing the parent process and 
replacing the original Mozi file with itself, disabling 
system services such as sshd and Dropbear, executing 
router/device configuration commands and disabling 
access to a specific set of ports. 
Despite the drastic reduction in functionality, Mozi 
bots have maintained persistence. They also pinged a 
remote server, probably for statistical purposes. Both 
these actions indicate that Mozi’s sudden demise 
was in fact a deliberate and calculated takedown. 
Upon closer inspection, the kill switch shows a strong 
connection to the botnet’s original source code and use 
of correct private keys to sign the binaries.
Based on these facts, we hypothesize about two 
potential actors, who could stand behind the castration 
of the botnet: the original botnet creators, or Chinese 
law enforcement forcing the cooperation of the creators. 
The demise of one of the most prolific IoT botnets 
provided a wealth of cyberforensic and technical 
information on how such botnets are created, operated, 
and dismantled. In the coming months, ESET researchers 
will publish a detailed analysis on WeLiveSecurity.com. 
Sudden drop in Mozi activity globally in H2 2023, seven-day moving average
EXPERT COMMENT
In recent years, IoT malware has slipped to the periphery of concern given its difficult 
detection, monitoring, and often unattainable mitigation. Still, threats like Mirai and its 
offspring represent a significant risk, as smart devices can easily be exploited to create large 
DDoS networks, anonymization networks, or be used for targeted tracking of VIP users. 
Adequate security measures and standards for IoT protection are available, but not all 
manufacturers are willing to implement them – be the reason the costs, negligence, or 
anything else. Also, one cannot expect end users to be the force of change, because they 
are mostly indifferent to whether their router or security camera recorder is conducting 
some illicit activity, since it doesn't affect their experience.
Meanwhile, attackers keep pace with vulnerabilities, exploiting an ever-growing number 
of weaknesses and types of devices and all that with alarming proficiency. The significance 
of honeypots in monitoring such actions is therefore crucial, having been instrumental in 
observing occurrences like the shutdown of Mozi. Ultimately, understanding and addressing 
these and all the emerging potential cyberthreats will be critical to help increase the digital 
security of the future internet. 
Milan Fránik, ESET malware researcher
ESET THREAT REPORT
H2 2023 | 12
Threat landscape trends
Threat telemetry
Research publications
About this report
About ESET
Foreword
Executive summary
Abusing the ChatGPT name for malicious 
domains
AI
A new economy has arisen around OpenAI API keys and the ChatGPT name, luring legitimate 
participants and cybercriminals alike.
ESET telemetry in H2 2023 recorded blocking over 
650,000 attempts to access malicious domains 
whose names include the string chapgpt or similar 
text in apparent reference to the ChatGPT chatbot. 
While most blocks happened in June, the succeeding 
months saw website visitors encountering a steady 
stream of malicious domains superficially offering 
OpenAI services.
Threats encountered via these domains include web apps 
that insecurely handle OpenAI API keys, and malicious 
Google Chrome browser extensions for ChatGPT.
OpenAI offers an API that grants access to AI models 
trained by OpenAI, such as GPT, DALL·E, and Whisper. 
Using the API requires obtaining a key from OpenAI 
and sending it in an HTTP Authoirzation header to 
an api.openai.com endpoint. OpenAI then bills each 
API key user according to the number of tokens used.
Protecting the privacy of your API key is thus critical 
to ensuring that your API use stays within budget. 
However, some developers have built bring-your-own-
key apps that request your OpenAI API key, purportedly 
to make calls to api.openai.com on your behalf. If 
the app sends your key to the developer’s server, there 
may be little to no guarantee that your key will not be 
leaked or misused, even if the call to the OpenAI API 
is also made. This is why OpenAI strongly exhorts: 
“Remember that your API key is a secret! Do not 
share it with others or expose it in any client-side code 
(browsers, apps).”
In one case, we noticed that a ChatGPT web app on 
chat.apple000[.]top asks users for their OpenAI API 
keys and sends them to its own server.
Web threats
Detections of malicious ChatGPT-inspired domain names and JS/Chromex.Agent.BZ in H2 2023
ESET THREAT REPORT
H2 2023 | 13
Threat landscape trends
Threat telemetry
Research publications
About this report
About ESET
Foreword
Executive summary
This web app links to the open-source code in GitHub from which 
it was built. A Censys query for HTML web pages that use the title 
“ChatGPT Next Web” suggests that over 7,000 servers host a copy of this 
web app. Whether these copies were created as a part of campaigns 
phishing for OpenAI API keys or were exposed on the internet for 
another reason cannot be determined with certainty; however, we 
strongly discourage entering your OpenAI API key into any app that 
sends it to an untrusted server.
Apart from such web apps, almost all blocks of malicious ChatGPT-
inspired domain names in the second half of 2023 were related to 
Chrome extensions detected as JS/Chromex.Agent.BZ – a detection first 
seen in June.
For example, we saw gptforchrome[.]com leading to the malicious 
extension ChatGPT for Search - Support GPT-4 in the Chrome Web Store, 
which we have reported to Google. In June, a developer also reported that 
this extension was potentially malicious.
This Chrome extension uses an extension service worker to import 
JavaScript from a file called tracker.js, which periodically sends the 
following information to the gptforchrome[.]com server:
•	 extension ID, 
•	 extension version,
•	 unique user ID assigned by the extension, and
•	 current timestamp.
If the server sends a URL in response, the extension can display it in a new 
browser tab. This functionality, undisclosed by the developer, could be a 
conduit to malicious web pages.
EXPERT COMMENT
Deleting malicious browser extensions may not be 
enough to prevent attempts at re-compromise if you 
have turned on sync in your browser. Whenever the sync 
process runs, it attempts to make browser data – such as 
extensions – from other devices available in the browser 
on your current device. Make sure to delete malicious 
browser extensions on all your devices, especially if you 
have enabled sync. Even better is to carefully vet browser 
extensions before installing them and to use a reliable, 
multilayered security solution that can detect them.
Jiří Kropáč, ESET Director of Threat Detection
A ChatGPT web app that sends OpenAI API keys to its own server
ChatGPT for Search Chrome browser extension detected as JS/Chromex.Agent.BZ
ESET THREAT REPORT
H2 2023 | 14
Threat landscape trends
Threat telemetry
Research publications
About this report
About ESET
Foreword
Executive summary
Lumma Stealer takes 
the cryptostealer 
threat landscape by 
storm
Cryptocurrency threats
Illicit cryptomining may be on its way out, but Lumma Stealer’s success shows that 
cryptowallets remain in the sights of cybercriminals.
H2 2023 continued the phenomenon described in the 
previous Threat Report: the exchange rate of bitcoin 
kept going up, yet cryptocurrency threats failed to 
match this trend. However, while cryptominers – 
which make up the majority of cryptocurrency threats 
detected by ESET – experienced yet another steep 
decline (down by 21%), cryptostealers were on the 
rise. In H2 2023, these threats grew by more than 
68%. Thankfully, we cannot speak of a cryptostealing 
renaissance just yet, as this sudden increase was 
caused by just one specific threat, which accounted 
for almost 80% of detections in this category – the 
Win/Spy.Agent.PRG trojan.
By matching the samples registered in ESET telemetry 
data and the samples found on VirusTotal, we 
determined that Win/Spy.Agent.PRG is a malware-
as-a-service (MaaS) infostealer called Lumma Stealer. 
Also known as LummaC2 Stealer, this malware is 
written in C and targets cryptocurrency wallets, user 
credentials, and two-factor authentication browser 
extensions. It also exfiltrates information from 
compromised machines. Between H1 and H2 2023, the 
Infostealers
Malware-as-a-service
Lumma Stealer detection trend in H1 and H2 2023, seven-day moving average
H2
H1
+199%
Top 10 cryptostealer families in H2 2023 (% of Cryptostealer detections)
78.9%
8.0%
6.8%
3.7%
2.1%
0.4%
0.1%
0.02%
0.02%
0.01%
Win/Spy.Agent trojan
Win/PSW.Delf trojan
MSIL/ClipBanker trojan
Win/PSW.Agent trojan
MSIL/PSW.CoinStealer trojan
PowerShell/PSW.CoinStealer trojan
Python/PSW.CoinStealer trojan
JS/CoinThief trojan
Win/Spy.CoinBit trojan
JS/ExtenBro.CryptoSteal trojan
ESET THREAT REPORT
H2 2023 | 15
Threat landscape trends
Threat telemetry
Research publications
About this report
About ESET
Foreword
Executive summary
number of Lumma Stealer detections tripled. We registered the highest rate 
of Win/Spy.Agent.PRG detections in the latter half of H2, peaking in October.
This up-and-coming MaaS first appeared in the wild in August 2022 and is 
available for sale on underground forums and on Telegram. Multiple tiers 
are offered, with prices ranging from USD 250 up to USD 20,000;  
the highest tier even gives buyers access to the infostealer’s source code 
and allows them to sell the malware themselves. 
Interestingly, there are ESET detections of Win/Spy.Agent.PRG from before 
2022. Based on the information shared on X (formerly Twitter) by the 
cybersecurity company Sekoia.io and the user Fumik0_, we conclude that 
the detections prior to 2022 belong to Mars, Arkei, and Vidar infostealers, 
whose common code base was later repurposed to create Lumma Stealer.
Being available for sale and not focusing purely on cryptostealing are 
very likely the main factors behind Lumma Stealer’s popularity among 
cybercriminals. As we discussed in the RedLine Stealer section of the H1 
2023 ESET Threat Report, ready-made malware solutions contribute to 
the proliferation of malicious campaigns because they make the malware 
available even to potentially less technically skilled threat actors. Offering a 
broader range of functions then serves to render Lumma Stealer even more 
attractive as a product.
Although this infostealer spreads mainly through cracked installations 
of software such as VLC and ChatGPT, it has been seen utilizing other 
distribution vectors as well. For example, in February 2023, a Korean 
YouTuber was targeted via a spearphishing email impersonating the video 
game company Bandai Namco. Threat actors have also been spreading it 
via the content delivery network of the popular chat platform Discord. 
Furthermore, Lumma Stealer is one of the possible payloads of a recent 
fake browser update campaign, in which a compromised website is made 
to display an overlay telling the victim that a browser update is necessary 
to access the site. Clicking the update button then delivers malware such as 
RedLine, Amadey, or the titular Lumma Stealer to the victim’s machine.
At ESET, we have also seen Lumma Stealer being distributed by the 
Win/TrojanDownloader.Rugmi trojan. This malware is a loader with three 
types of components: a downloader that downloads an encrypted payload, 
a loader that runs the payload from internal resources, and another 
loader that runs the payload from an external file on the disk. Apart from 
Lumma Stealer, Win/TrojanDownloader.Rugmi is also used to deliver 
other infostealers, among them Vidar, Rescoms, and RecordBreaker. The 
detections of this loader skyrocketed in H2, going from single digit daily 
numbers to hundreds per day.
CRYPTOCURRENCY HEISTS AND SCAMS
Malware that targets cryptocurrencies may not be as common as before, 
but H2 2023 saw no lack of high-profile cryptocurrency-related cybercrime.
Cryptoscammers posing as NFT developers
The FBI issued a warning about criminals posing as legitimate NFT developers 
in order to steal the cryptocurrency funds of their victims. These scammers 
make posts claiming to offer limited NFT opportunities that lead to spoofed 
websites. Once victims try to make purchases via the website, the threat 
actors can steal the funds contained within their cryptocurrency wallets.
Lazarus linked to theft of roughly USD 900 million in cryptocurrency
Between July 2022 and July 2023, the Lazarus APT group laundered around 
USD 900 million in cryptocurrency through cross-chain crime: when 
criminals convert cryptocurrency assets from one token or blockchain to 
another, often in quick succession, to obfuscate the assets’ origin. 
Elon Musk cryptocurrency scams find a new platform
Scams posing as cryptocurrency giveaways by Elon Musk have for some 
time been quite notorious on X and Instagram. Now, they are finding a new 
audience on the video-sharing platform TikTok, using deep fakes of Musk 
interviews. In order to receive the advertised reward, users are asked to 
make activation deposits into scam sites, which then steal the payments.
USD 4.4 million in cryptocurrency stolen due to LastPass breach
In October, hackers used private keys and passphrases from leaked 
LastPass databases to steal USD 4.4 million in cryptocurrency. LastPass 
was breached twice in 2022, giving threat actors access to the company’s 
customer data.
Win/TrojanDownloader.Rugmi detection trend in H2 2023, seven-day moving average
ESET THREAT REPORT
H2 2023 | 16
Threat landscape trends
Threat telemetry
Research publications
About this report
About ESET
Foreword
Executive summary
Android TV boxes under fire: Pandora builds 
a botnet for DDoS attacks
IoT Android
Botnets
A new Mirai-based threat uses malicious streaming apps to enslave devices in Latin America.
Any device connected to the internet could become 
a target for cybercriminals. Smart TVs with their 
peripherals are no exception. In September 2023, a 
new IoT botnet sprang to life, which ESET detects 
as Android/Pandora. First described by Doctor Web, 
the threat compromises Android devices – most 
prominently Android TV boxes – with Mirai-based 
malware. The enslaved devices are then used by the 
botnet operators to run DDoS attacks. 
According to ESET telemetry, Android/Pandora 
attempted to compromise tens of thousands of 
Android devices, with approximately a fifth of instances 
detected and blocked directly on victims’ television sets 
by ESET Smart TV Security.
The biggest spike of activity was observed on 
September 8, with over two thousand attacks. After 
the initial wave, the activity dropped to about five 
hundred attacks daily. The most targeted region is 
Latin America, with Brazil leading the pack (20%), 
followed by Mexico (13%) and Peru (11%). 
There are two possible delivery methods for the 
Android/Pandora malware. First is via malicious 
firmware updates that were preinstalled on the 
Android TV box by the reseller or downloaded and 
installed by an unaware victim.
However, the main distribution channel seems to be 
websites spreading malicious apps with names such as 
MagisTV, Tele Latino, and YouCine. These are offered 
not only for TVs, smartphones, tablets and Android TV 
boxes, but also for TV sticks from Amazon and Xiaomi. 
Upon installation, these apps offer streaming services 
and pirated content that can be accessed for free, 
on trial, or with a premium account. From the user’s 
perspective, the app provides all the promised features 
and content without any obvious signs of malicious 
activity. Moreover, paying for the premium subscription 
lowers the willingness of a victim to voluntarily remove 
the malware from the device. 
Android/Pandora detection trend from September 2023 to November 2023
ANDROID TV BOX
It’s an IoT peripheral device – typically a box or a dongle – that users plug into their TV to gain access 
to a variety of streaming apps, or content, that is not natively supported by their television set.
ESET THREAT REPORT
H2 2023 | 17
Threat landscape trends
Threat telemetry
Research publications
About this report
About ESET
Foreword
Executive summary
Pandora request for superuser (root) rights on an Android Smart TV
Top 10 most common weak IoT device passwords in 2023
User interface of the malicious apps
75%
13%
3%2%1%1%
0.7%
0.6% 0.6% 0.4%
admin
root
1234
password
guest
12345
support
x-admin
Admin
super
Although the list of app permissions doesn’t seem to be intrusive or to 
hint at spyware functionality, if installed on a Smart TV, Pandora requests 
superuser or root rights for the application. For this to work, however, the 
device already needs to be rooted at the point of installation; the app does 
not try to root the device itself. 
(Other) Mirai-based botnets
While the Pandora botnet was on the rise, other Mirai-based botnets 
tracked by ESET – including Gafgyt, BotenaGo, Dofloo, Tsunami, Zero, and 
others – seemed to lose steam. According to our telemetry, these networks 
of enslaved IoT devices caused “only” 7.5 million attacks in H2 2023, a notable 
59% decrease compared to H1 2023. The highest number of those attacks 
were directed at the US (22%), Germany (7%), and the United Kingdom (7%). 
Somewhat counterintuitively, the number of servers delivering modified 
Mirai payloads for these botnets dropped by only 3% – just a few dozen 
machines – and the Mirai-based IoT armies have grown by 58% from 
106,000 to over 168,000 between the first and second halves of 2023. 
The largest share of that increase came from Egypt, which hosted close 
to 110,000 (65%) of all the detected compromised devices – a 164% jump 
compared to 42,000 (39%) seen in the first half of 2023. Looking at the 
other side of that equation, the greatest percentage of unique devices 
facing Mirai-based bot attacks were in Germany (16%), the US (9%), and 
Mexico (7%). 
Mirai-based botnets have refreshed the list of exploited flaws in H2 2023 
by adding CVE-2023-26801: this recently reported command injection 
vulnerability in several LB-LINK routers was the second most abused in the 
last six months and accounted for 10% of all detected attack attempts. 
ESET THREAT REPORT
H2 2023 | 18
Threat landscape trends
Threat telemetry
Research publications
About this report
About ESET
Foreword
Executive summary
Magecart, the ever-present phantom 
haunting e-commerce 
Infostealers
JS/Spy.Banker detection trend in H1 and H2 2023, seven-day moving average
H2
H1
+9%
It seems there is never a prolonged period without notable Magecart attacks and H2 2023 
was no exception. 
Magecart has been successfully targeting online 
shopping and hospitality platforms since 2015 and 
shows no signs of stopping. On the contrary, based 
on ESET data, H2 2023 marks the second year of 
continuous growth for this malware. But what makes 
Magecart such a pervasive threat?
In ESET telemetry, Magecart detections fall under 
JS/Spy.Banker, which is categorized as a web skimmer 
– i.e., a malicious online script injected into the code of 
hacked or unpatched websites with the goal of stealing 
information from those who browse these websites. 
Magecart mostly goes after credit card data and 
targets websites hosted on Magento and WordPress 
platforms. There is no single threat actor behind 
Magecart attacks; ESET tracks under the one label the 
activity of the several groups that use Magecart.
This malware family consistently ranks in the top 
positions in our most-detected Infostealer statistics. 
In H2 2023, it was in second place, with detections 
counting in tens of thousands, the only threat with 
more detected activity being Agent Tesla. Still, it should 
be mentioned that since JS/Spy.Banker detections are 
based on the number of unique visits to a website, 
it will have a generally higher number of detections 
than threats distributed as email attachments or 
downloader payloads. 
Nevertheless, there is little doubt that Magecart is a 
very prolific threat. Looking at our data, JS/Spy.Banker 
has been growing in numbers since the end of 2021 – 
the overall increase of its detections between 2021 and 
2023 amounts to 343%. Zooming in on H2 2023, we 
can see that while the malware family did not grow 
dramatically this period (+9%), there was still an uptick 
Web threats
ESET THREAT REPORT
H2 2023 | 19
Threat landscape trends
Threat telemetry
Research publications
About this report
About ESET
Foreword
Executive summary
in detections starting in October and accelerating 
throughout November. Since the end of the year is 
also the time when people generally do a lot more 
online shopping due to the approaching holiday season, 
it comes as no surprise that Magecart rates would 
increase as well.
While Magecart attacks are not the most flashy or 
sophisticated forms of cybercrime out there, they have 
been successfully used by cybercriminals for years. 
Their simplicity works in their favor, using scripts 
that are relatively straightforward to code, while the 
myriads of unpatched websites make for easy prey. It 
also seems that the ongoing AI boom might be a boon 
to Magecart: researchers have shown that ChatGPT 
can be abused to write web-skimming scripts, which 
would make this type of malware accessible to a 
broader range of cybercriminal actors. 
Apart from the obvious impact on the customers of 
a compromised website whose money and personal 
information gets into the hands of cybercriminals, 
Magecart attacks can be quite devastating to the 
targeted companies. Due to the loss of confidence 
of their clients, these businesses face monetary 
consequences, since fewer customers equals less 
revenue. There can also be legal ramifications: 
for example, in the EU, these companies can find 
themselves in violation of GDPR due to data leaks, 
which can lead to significant fines. In a recent report, 
IBM estimated that the average cost of a data breach 
in 2023 was USD 4.45 million.
It is, however, very much possible to protect a 
business against Magecart skimmers. If you want to 
prevent your website from being compromised, we 
recommend that you make sure that your website 
servers and CMS are running up-to-date software, 
and that the accounts administering those resources 
are protected by strong authentication mechanisms 
(i.e., using strong passwords and two-factor 
authentication).
In H2 2023, there have also been some notable 
evolutions in the threat actors’ approach towards
compromising e-commerce websites. This is another 
reason why Magecart is, at least for now, here to stay 
– it does not remain stagnant.
Analysts at Akamai published two research pieces 
on these more sophisticated attacks. One of them 
describes how cybercriminals leverage legitimate 
websites to attack others. First, they inject Magecart 
code into a vulnerable site, using it to host the code, 
then they attack their actual target by employing 
malicious JavaScript code snippets as loaders that 
get the full code from the previously compromised 
vulnerable website.
14.7%
13.7%
6.1%
5.9%
3.0%
2.4%
2.0%
1.8%
1.7%
1.7%
MSIL/Spy.AgentTesla trojan
JS/Spy.Banker trojan
PHP/Webshell backdoor
Win/Formbook trojan
MSIL/Spy.Agent trojan
ASP/Webshell backdoor
PHP/Agent backdoor
Win/HoudRat trojan
Win/Korplug backdoor
Win/Spy.Agent trojan
Top 10 infostealer families in H2 2023 (% of Infostealer detections) 
Website compromised by JS/Spy.Banker and the malicious code linked to the page
ESET THREAT REPORT
H2 2023 | 20
Threat landscape trends
Threat telemetry
Research publications
About this report
About ESET
Foreword
Executive summary
We have also been encountering scripts that function 
similarly to the ones described in the linked article – 
if a skimmer is not located directly on the targeted 
website, ESET products usually detect the script leading 
to it. These scripts often belong to the JS/Redirector or 
JS/Agent families.
The other research piece talks about hiding Magecart 
scripts in 404 error pages: once a victim wants to pay 
for the goods they’re buying, a malicious piece of code 
calls the 404 page with the skimmer script, which then 
overlays a lookalike payment form on the checkout 
page to capture the user data. At ESET, we detect the 
code snippet loader hidden within the 404 pages as 
JS/Spy.Banker.MC. 
The abuse of HTML error pages is an established 
cybercriminal technique. For example, the now-defunct 
TeslaCrypt ransomware used to hide C&C commands 
in HTML tags. Luckily, Magecart scripts are usually 
easily recognized by cybersecurity products even 
though the threat actors try to hide them in creative 
ways: in case of an encounter with a compromised 
site, it would be detected and blocked by the ESET 
detection engine.
Magecart attacks are the most prevalent in the US, 
which registered almost 15% of JS/Spy.Banker attack 
attempts. This threat is actually the most detected 
infostealer in the United States, accounting for a third 
of all Infostealer detections in the country. This is also 
the case in Italy, the country with the second highest 
numbers of JS/Spy.Banker detections globally (11%). This 
threat represents 42% of Infostealer detections ESET 
telemetry registered there
Geographic distribution of JS/Spy.Banker detections in H2 2023
15%
0%
OTHER INFOSTEALER INSIGHTS
macOS password stealers on the rise
The macOS platform is generally targeted by 
adware and Potentially Unwanted Applications 
(PUAs); however, ESET telemetry has detected a 
worrying trend in H2 2023, where Password Stealing 
Ware (PSW) on macOS experienced a staggering 
290% increase. PSWs, which are just one subset of 
infostealers detected on the macOS platform by ESET, 
are a type of malware designed to steal sensitive 
data from users’ systems. Working quietly in the 
background, PSWs can record keystrokes, capture 
screenshots, or directly steal saved passwords from the 
users’ browsers or other applications.
Fueling this surge are numerous new PSWs 
discovered by security researchers in H2 2023, such 
as Metastealer, Pureland, Realst Infostealer, 
ShadowVault macOS Stealer, MacStealer, and 
AMOS. Posing as specific files or useful apps, these 
infostealers spread via malicious websites, malvertising, 
and phishing. In addition to stealing passwords and 
exfiltrating various file types, they can also extract 
credit card information and target cryptocurrency 
wallets. Despite the sharp rise in PSWs, even though 
the total numbers are rather low, it’s worth noting 
that the overall category of Infostealers on macOS has 
increased only slightly in H2 2023 by 10%.
Qbot operations disrupted
In August 2023, the notorious Qbot malware (also 
known as Qakbot) was taken down thanks to a 
coordinated international operation conducted by 
several national law enforcement agencies, and 
organizations such as Europol and the FBI. In the 
process, the authorities seized nearly EUR 8 million 
in cryptocurrencies. The examination of Qbot 
infrastructure revealed over 700,000 compromised 
computers worldwide.
Looking at ESET telemetry data, the malware was 
already mostly inactive by that time. We have not 
seen much Qbot activity since the middle of the year 
– the last campaign we tracked occurred in the latter 
half of June. We have occasionally noticed some Qbot 
C&C server detections since the takedown took place, 
but some of the servers in question had already been 
neutralized by the authorities. 
ESET THREAT REPORT
H2 2023 | 21
Threat landscape trends
Threat telemetry
Research publications
About this report
About ESET
Foreword
Executive summary
Website visitors 
under siege by 
malicious scripts
Web threats
JS/Agent detection trend from January 2021 to November 2023, seven-day moving average
The rise in JS/Agent detections reveals that almost 45,000 websites have fallen victim to 
malicious JavaScript code.
A threat contender has risen 111% to take second place 
among all threats recorded by ESET telemetry in H2 
2023: JS/Agent. This detection name refers to malicious 
JavaScript code loaded by compromised web pages. 
From September 2023, we have observed a massive 
wave of JS/Agent detections – the likes of which have 
not been seen in the past three years.
As can be seen in the Magecart section, threat actors 
are known to attempt to exploit website vulnerabilities 
that may allow them to inject malicious JavaScript code 
into web pages. Such code is typically the beginning 
of a chain of scripts that allows attackers to download 
further malicious scripts, which can take over admin 
access to the site, install malicious web plugins, or 
deliver payloads such as backdoors.
Most of the increase in JS/Agent detections was due to 
the 136% growth of the JS/Agent.PHC variant and the 
appearance of the .RAN and .RAW variants. The .PHC 
variant includes the ndsj malware Sucuri reported 
on in June 2022. This malware consists of lightly 
obfuscated JavaScript that executes the next stage, 
usually a malicious PHP script already present on the 
compromised web server and whose job is to fetch a 
JavaScript payload from a C&C server.
The most prevalent detections of JS/Agent.PHC were 
in Japan (10%), Spain (8%), and the US (6%). From 
September to November, ESET telemetry recorded 
14,500 websites compromised with the .PHC variant.
EXPERT COMMENT
Website admins should be wary of which plugins they install, especially for WordPress, 
as this dramatically increases the attack surface. Make sure to put in place a patching 
policy that requires admins to apply updates as soon as they are available. Teach your web 
developers about secure coding practices such as data sanitization, secure HTTP headers, 
and a Content Security Policy to prevent multiple types of script injection attacks.
Ján Adámek, ESET Senior Detection Engineer
ESET THREAT REPORT
H2 2023 | 22
Threat landscape trends
Threat telemetry
Research publications
About this report
About ESET
Foreword
Executive summary
The .RAN and .RAW variants include malicious 
JavaScript detected as part of a Balada Injector 
campaign reported by Sucuri in October 2023. Both 
these variants are distinct, lightly obfuscated scripts 
but with a similar purpose: downloading the next-
stage JavaScript code from a C&C server. For example, 
some .RAN samples download a script from stay.
decentralappps[.]com, and some .RAW samples 
reach out to cdn.statisticscripts[.]com.
The .RAN variant accounts for the spike on September 
21, the largest one seen in the past three years. 
Successive waves of detections are mainly due to the 
RAW variant.
The .RAN and .RAW variants and 37 other related JS/
Agent variants add up to over 900,000 detections 
in the second half of 2023. This indicates that many 
websites have been compromised in this period, 
probably due to attackers exploiting website 
vulnerabilities such as CVE-2023-3169, which affects 
specific versions of the tagDiv Composer plugin for 
WordPress, as reported in our ESET Security Forum.
The most prevalent detections of these 39 variants 
were in Italy (10%), Czechia (7%), and Poland (7%). From 
September to November, ESET telemetry recorded 
6,700 websites compromised with the .RAN variant, 
and 23,500 with the .RAW variant.
JS/Agent.PHC detection trend in H2 2023
JS/Agent.RAN and JS/Agent.RAW detection trends from September 2023 to November 2023
ESET THREAT REPORT
H2 2023 | 23
Threat landscape trends
Threat telemetry
Research publications
About this report
About ESET
Foreword
Executive summary
Cl0p and its MOVEit hack: A mass-spreading 
yet targeted attack
Ransomware
How exploitation of a two-year-old zero day vulnerability by one actor caused a global 
cybersecurity nightmare.
The biggest ransomware story of H2 2023 doesn’t 
even include ransomware per se. What qualifies the 
so-called “MOVEit hack” for this chapter is that it was 
carried out by a cybercriminal group known as Cl0p 
(aka Lace Tempest, FIN11, TA505, or Evil Corp) infamous 
for using ransomware in large-scale hacks. However, 
its latest campaign reached such proportions that 
encrypting every victim was probably too laborious 
even for this group.
It all started on May 27, the first day of the US 
Memorial Day long weekend, when the cybercriminals 
launched a massive exploitation of a zero-day 
vulnerability (CVE-2023-34362) in the widely used 
managed transfer app MOVEit. The flaw, which the 
attackers probably sat on since 2021, allowed them to 
escalate their privileges and gain unauthorized access 
to stored and transferred data.
About a week later, the range of impact started to 
become apparent as information about high-profile 
victims – such as the BBC, British Airways, and Aer 
Lingus – started rolling in. It was about the same 
time that Microsoft first attributed the attack to the 
Cl0p gang, which in turn confirmed it via media and 
bragged that the number of compromised companies 
was in the hundreds.
Six months later, the number of affected organizations 
has surpassed 2,600 – at least according to 
Emsisoft’s monitoring. The list of victims includes 
US governmental agencies, schools and universities, 
healthcare institutions, and also global corporations 
such as Sony, EY, and PricewaterhouseCoopers. If 
the 83 million records of individuals that were leaked 
are multiplied by IBM’s average cost of USD 165 per 
breached record, that puts the estimated financial 
EXPERT COMMENT
Looking back at 2023, we can safely say that ransomware was more active than in 2022. 
Based on published information and the incidents we investigated, the ransom demands 
grew also, although it is difficult to assess whether this was due to the greed of the 
attackers; victims being less willing to pay, which in turn forced attackers to look for revenue 
in masses; or if the adjustment was influenced by high inflation. 
The story that stood out most to us was surely the MOVEit hack. However, it wasn’t just 
the size of the campaign that made it so prominent, but also the technical proficiency of the 
Cl0p gang that was behind the attack. These threat actors demonstrated they can find a 
new zero-day vulnerability, weaponize it, and wait for the opportune moment to deploy it.
In 2024, we expect most of the outlined trends to continue, with current major players 
focusing on expansion of their affiliate programs. By employing other cybercriminals within 
their schemes, notable families will limit the space for emergence of new competitors. 
Jakub Souček, ESET Senior Malware Researcher
ESET THREAT REPORT
H2 2023 | 24
Threat landscape trends
Threat telemetry
Research publications
About this report
About ESET
Foreword
Executive summary
damage of the hack close to USD 14 billion. That’s more than the USD 10 
billion damage caused by the infamous NotPetya incident.
Early estimates say Cl0p could pull in as much as USD 75–100 million from its 
victims. Due to severity of the incident – and probably its heavy focus on the US 
and Canada – the US Department of State has issued a USD 10 million bounty 
for any information leading to the arrest and conviction of the perpetrators.
The MOVEit hack could also point to a new trend in the ransomware scene, 
as Cl0p started using the clear web to leak the stolen information. This 
move was first seen in June 2023 with the ALPHV ransomware gang (aka 
BlackCat) and makes this kind of cyberincident much more visible, increasing 
pressure on the victim. In an attempt to avoid takedowns, Cl0p also leaked 
part of the information via torrents due to the sheer volume of data stolen.
Two other new trends in H2 have been highlighted by the FBI. First was the 
deployment of two or more ransomware variants during the same incident, 
usually a choice of the AvosLocker, Diamond, Hive, Karakurt, LockBit, Quantum, 
and Royal families. Second was the use of wipers on top of data theft and 
ransomware encryption. This way attackers can corrupt data in compromised 
systems after a set time and thus further increase pressure on the victim.
CosmicBeetle replaces Scarab ransomware 
with its own ScRansom
In H2 2023, ESET researchers took a closer look at CosmicBeetle – a Turkish-
speaking threat actor that uses the small Spacecolon (Sc) toolset to deploy 
ransomware all over the world. 
ESET researchers also discovered a new ransomware strain in development, 
naming it ScRansom and attributing it with high confidence to the same 
threat actor. While at the time of our initial publication we haven’t 
observed any in-the-wild attacks using ScRansom, the situation changed 
shortly afterwards and this variant is now the preferred ransomware 
deployed by the CosmicBeetle group, replacing it’s former main payload 
choice - Scarab ransomware.
In some of its recent attacks, the threat actor modified the ransom note 
to impersonate LockBit and even set up a surface web leak site, mimicking 
LockBit’s. There, they copied a few of the most recent LockBit victims and 
added some of their own. CosmicBeetle is likely abusing LockBit’s well-
known name in order increase pressure on its own victims.
To gain an initial foothold, CosmicBeetle uses several attack avenues, 
including RDP brute forcing and exploitation of the ZeroLogon vulnerability 
(CVE-2020-1472). With low confidence, ESET researchers also assess that 
CosmicBeetle may be abusing a vulnerability in FortiOS, based on a “Forti” 
string found in the code and the fact that the vast majority of its victims 
have devices running FortiOS in their environment.
The Spacecolon toolset consists of three tools: the main orchestrator called 
ScHackTool, used to deploy a small component ScInstaller, which in turn 
installs CosmicBeetle’s backdoor ScService. The latter allows the attacker 
to execute commands, retrieve information about victims’ systems and 
download and execute payloads – for details refer to our original analysis.
NOTABLE NEW PLAYERS AND REBRANDS
3AM
A new Rust-based ransomware made headlines in September, 
attracting researchers’ attention mostly by being deployed as a 
backup variant after a failed attempt to run LockBit ransomware. 
Since then, 3AM has been used to attack more than a dozen other 
victims, spilling their information via a newly set up Tor leak site.
LostTrust 
LostTrust ransomware is a likely rebrand of the MetaEncryptor 
ransomware used by the same cybercriminal actors.
SophosEncrypt 
It is not uncommon for cybercriminals to try to pin their activity on 
cybersecurity researchers and organizations. SophosEncrypt is an example 
of ransomware where threat actors are trying to “sell” their product as if it 
came from a known security company, Sophos.
NoEscape
A new ransomware family called NoEscape has caught attention of 
researchers and media in July 2023. Based on code similarity in its 
encryptor, experts suggest it could be a rebrand of a once prominent 
ransomware strain, known as Avaddon, whose operators closed shop in 
2021. According to the list on NoEscape’s darkweb leak site, the NoEscape 
group has already compromised at least a hundred companies in H2 2023.
Hunters International
Is Hive back? In H2 2023, the new ransomware as a service operation 
named Hunters International was launched. Upon analyzing its encryptor, 
several security researchers found major code overlap with Hive – a 
criminal service that was infiltrated and then dismantled by law 
enforcement early in H1 2023. The threat actors behind the new Hunters 
International deny any relationship to Hive and claim they’ve bought and 
fixed the old code from the previous operators. As for victims, Hunters’ leak 
site lists dozens of compromised organizations, mostly from the United 
States and Europe.
ESET THREAT REPORT
H2 2023 | 25
Threat landscape trends
Threat telemetry
Research publications
About this report
About ESET
Foreword
Executive summary
ARRESTED/CLOSED SHOP/DECRYPTED:
HACKED: Trigona 
The Trigona ransomware gang saw their servers infiltrated and wiped by 
Ukrainian cyberactivists. The Ukrainian Cyber Alliance (UCA) also claimed 
that they exfiltrated source code, internal communication, database 
records, and other data from Trigona's systems. This might include 
decryption keys; however, UCA didn’t provide any further updates.
ARRESTED: Ragnar Locker
In late October, law enforcement agents took action against the Ragnar 
Locker ransomware family, interviewing five suspects and arresting 
one key individual. Physical raids were conducted in Czechia, Spain, and 
Latvia; seizure of infrastructure took place in the Netherlands, Germany, 
and Sweden. The dark web site was also taken down, and replaced with 
information about the operation. Ragnar Locker had been active since 2019, 
attacking critical infrastructure including the Portuguese national carrier 
and a hospital in Israel. 
LEAKED CODE: HelloKitty 
Source code for more ransomware has been leaked, this time it seems by 
the malicious actors behind the HelloKitty family themselves. The code for 
the first version of their malware appeared on a Russian-speaking forum 
accompanied by claims of work on a new, more powerful encryptor. This 
leaked code can – and probably will – lead to a series of newcomers who 
will try to utilize the information.
ARRESTED: LockBit (affiliate)
While the arrest of a LockBit affiliate took place early in 2023, US 
authorities only unveiled the charges and expected penalty in June 2023. 
The US Department of Justice is asking the courts to send the Russian 
Ruslan Magomedovich Astamirov to jail for up to 25 years.
DECRYPTOR: Key Group 
Based on flaws in its encryption scheme, researchers created a decryptor 
for the Key Group ransomware. The free tool helps victims hit by the early 
versions of the ransomware. Key Group has been active since 2023, and is 
labeled as a Russian-speaking actor. 
DECRYPTOR: Akira
A decryption tool is also available for the Akira ransomware, which has 
been active since 2023 attacking various sectors across the globe. 
BOUNTY: Cl0p
Due to the severity of the MOVEit hack the US Department of State has 
issued a USD 10 million bounty for any information leading to the arrest 
and conviction of the perpetrators known as the Cl0p gang.
ARRESTED: MegaCortex, HIVE, LockerGoga, Dharma 
Europol, Eurojust, and agencies from seven countries have dismantled an 
organized group of ransomware actors whose attacks affected more than 
1,800 victims in 71 countries. All five suspects were taken into custody in 
Ukraine, including a 32-year-old ringleader. A total of 30 locations were 
searched. This action followed a first round of arrests from 2021. 
H2 2023 | 26
Threat landscape trends
Threat telemetry
Research publications
About this report
About ESET
Foreword
Executive summary
Threat 
telemetry
ESET THREAT REPORT
H2 2023 | 27
Threat landscape trends
Threat telemetry
Research publications
About this report
About ESET
Foreword
Executive summary
Geographic distribution of malware detections in H2 2023
23.4%
10.1%
9.4%
8.3%
5.2%
2.9%
2.9%
2.5%
1.9%
1.5%
HTML/Phishing.Agent trojan
JS/Agent trojan
DOC/Fraud trojan
Win/Exploit.CVE-2017-11882 trojan
HTML/Phishing trojan
PDF/Phishing trojan
MSIL/TrojanDownloader.Agent trojan
LNK/Agent trojan
HTML/Fraud trojan
JS/ScrInject trojan
Overall threat detection trend in H1 2023 and H2 2023, seven-day moving average
Top 10 malware detections in H2 2023 (% of malware detections)
H2
H1
-2%
All threats
10%
0%
ESET THREAT REPORT
H2 2023 | 28
Threat landscape trends
Threat telemetry
Research publications
About this report
About ESET
Foreword
Executive summary
Geographic distribution of Android detections in H2 2023
27.1%
8.3%
7.3%
6.4%
5.1%
4.5%
4.3%
3.9%
3.5%
3.4%
Android/TrojanDropper.Agent trojan
Android/Agent trojan
Android/AdDisplay.HiddAd PUA
Android/Hiddad trojan
Android/AdDisplay.MobiDash PUA
Android/Spy.Agent trojan
Android/Spy.SpinOk trojan
Android/Andreed trojan
Android/SpyLoan PUA
Android/AdDisplay.Fyben PUA
Detection trends of selected Android detection categories in H1 2023 and H2 2023, seven-day moving average (trends of Clickers, Cryptominers, 
Ransomware, Scam apps, SMS trojans, and Stalkerware are combined in the trendline Other)
Top 10 Android detections in H2 2023 (% of malware detections)
H2
H1
+22%
Android
15%
0%
ESET THREAT REPORT
H2 2023 | 29
Threat landscape trends
Threat telemetry
Research publications
About this report
About ESET
Foreword
Executive summary
Geographic distribution of Cryptocurency threat detections in H2 2023
35.6%
15.9%
12.7%
6.6%
6.2%
4.9%
4.3%
3.7%
2.7%
2.0%
Win/CoinMiner PUA
Win/CoinMiner trojan
JS/CoinMiner PUA
NSIS/CoinMiner trojan
BAT/CoinMiner trojan
MSIL/CoinMiner PUA
Win/Spy.Agent trojan
WASM/CoinMiner PUA
MSIL/CoinMiner trojan
JS/CoinMiner trojan
Cryptocurrency threat detection trend in H1 2023 and H2 2023, seven-day moving average
Top 10 Cryptocurrency threat detections in H2 2023 (% of malware detections)
H2
H1
-19%
Cryptocurrency threats
10%
0%
ESET THREAT REPORT
H2 2023 | 30
Threat landscape trends
Threat telemetry
Research publications
About this report
About ESET
Foreword
Executive summary
Downloader detections per detection type in H2 2023
Geographic distribution of Downloader detections in H2 2023
26.3%
13.3%
9.3%
8.7%
8.7%
7.0%
4.0%
2.9%
2.2%
1.9%
MSIL/TrojanDownloader.Agent trojan
Win/TrojanDownloader.ModiLoader trojan
VBA/TrojanDownloader.Agent trojan
JS/Danger trojan
DOC/TrojanDownloader.Agent trojan
PowerShell/TrojanDownloader.Agent trojan
VBS/TrojanDownloader.Agent trojan
MSIL/TrojanDownloader.Agent_AGen trojan
JS/TrojanDownloader.Nemucod trojan
JS/TrojanDownloader.Agent trojan
Downloader detection trend in H1 2023 and H2 2023, seven-day moving average
Top 10 Downloader detections in H2 2023 (% of malware detections)
H2
H1
+10%
Downloaders
29.7%
18.8%
12.9%
9.3%
8.7%
7.0%
5.5%
4.0%
2.1%
1.9%
MSIL
Win
JS
VBA
DOC
PowerShe
ll
Other
12%
0%
ESET THREAT REPORT
H2 2023 | 31
Threat landscape trends
Threat telemetry
Research publications
About this report
About ESET
Foreword
Executive summary
Top 10 threats detected in emails in H2 2023
Top malicious email attachment types in H2 2023
53.9%
20.1%
11.1%
10.0%
3.0%
1.2%
0.6%
0.1%
0.01%
Scripts
Executables
Office documents
PDF
Archives
Batch
Shortcuts
Jar
Android
Malicious email detection trend in H1 2023 and H2 2023, seven-day moving average
Spam detection trend in H1 2023 and H2 2023, seven-day moving average
H2
H1
-8%
H2
H1
+6%
Email threats
34.3%
15.5%
13.1%
7.0%
4.2%
2.5%
2.4%
2.4%
1.5%
1.4%
HTML/Phishing.Agent trojan
DOC/Fraud trojan
Win/Exploit.CVE-2017-11882 trojan
HTML/Phishing trojan
MSIL/TrojanDownloader.Agent trojan
PDF/Phishing trojan
HTML/Fraud trojan
Win/TrojanDownloader.ModiLoader trojan
JS/Danger.ScriptAttachment trojan
DOC/TrojanDownloader.Agent trojan
ESET THREAT REPORT
H2 2023 | 32
Threat landscape trends
Threat telemetry
Research publications
About this report
About ESET
Foreword
Executive summary
Trends of RDP, SMB and SQL attack attempts in H1 2023 and H2 2023, seven-day moving average
External network intrusion vectors reported by unique clients in H2 2023
42.6%
14.0%
8.0%
5.5%
3.9%
2.8%
2.4%
0.8%
0.4%
19.5%
Password guessing
Apache Struts2 CVE-2017-5638
Apache spring4j CVE-2022-22963,22965
Apache log4j CVE-2021-44228
SMB.DoublePulsar scan
MS IIS CVE-2015-1635
Pulse Secure CVE-2019-11510
MS SMB1 EternalBlue
MS RDP CVE-2019-0708 Bluekeep
Other
Geographic distribution of Email threat detections in H2 2023
Exploits
H2
H1
15%
0%
-1%
-2%
+5%
Email threats
ESET THREAT REPORT
H2 2023 | 33
Threat landscape trends
Threat telemetry
Research publications
About this report
About ESET
Foreword
Executive summary
Geographic distribution of SMB password guessing attack attempt targets in H2 2023
Geographic distribution of SQL password guessing attack attempt targets in H2 2023
Geographic distribution of RDP password guessing attack attempt sources in H2 2023
Geographic distribution of RDP password guessing attack attempt targets in H2 2023
13%
0%
16%
0%
43%
0%
10%
0%
Exploits
ESET THREAT REPORT
H2 2023 | 34
Threat landscape trends
Threat telemetry
Research publications
About this report
About ESET
Foreword
Executive summary
Infostealer detection trend in H1 2023 and H2 2023, seven-day moving average
Top 10 Infostealer families in H2 2023 (% of Infostealer detections)
14.7%
13.7%
6.1%
5.9%
3.0%
2.4%
2.0%
1.8%
1.7%
1.7%
MSIL/Spy.AgentTesla trojan
JS/Spy.Banker trojan
PHP/Webshell backdoor
Win/Formbook trojan
MSIL/Spy.Agent trojan
ASP/Webshell backdoor
PHP/Agent backdoor
Win/HoudRat trojan
Win/Korplug backdoor
Win/Spy.Agent trojan
Detection trend of Log4Shell exploitation attempts in H1 2023 and H2 2023, seven-day moving average
Geographic distribution of Log4Shell exploitation attempts in H2 2023
Infostealers
H2
H1
-9%
H2
H1
+9%
43%
0%
Exploits
ESET THREAT REPORT
H2 2023 | 35
Threat landscape trends
Threat telemetry
Research publications
About this report
About ESET
Foreword
Executive summary
Geographic distribution of Infostealer detections in H1 2023
8%
0%
Infostealers
36.4%
9.1%
4.8%
4.6%
4.5%
4.4%
4.2%
3.5%
2.7%
2.1%
OSX/Mackeeper PUA
OSX/Pirrit adware
OSX/Bundlore adware
OSX/TrojanDownloader.Adload trojan
OSX/Keygen PUsA
OSX/Genieo adware
OSX/GT32SupportGeeks PUA
OSX/BuhoCleaner PUA
OSX/TrojanProxy.Agent trojan
OSX/MaxOfferDeal adware
macOS detection trend in H1 2023 and H2 2023, seven-day moving average
Top 10 macOS detections in H2 2023 (% of macOS detections)
H2
H1
+2%
macOS
ESET THREAT REPORT
H2 2023 | 36
Threat landscape trends
Threat telemetry
Research publications
About this report
About ESET
Foreword
Executive summary
Geographic distribution of macOS detections in H2 2023
19%
0%
macOS
12.2%
8.4%
8.0%
7.9%
5.2%
3.6%
2.8%
2.7%
2.7%
2.6%
Win/Filecoder.STOP trojan
MSIL/Filecoder trojan
Win/Filecoder.WannaCryptor trojan
Win/Filecoder trojan
Win/Filecoder.BlackMatter trojan
Win/Filecoder.Phobos trojan
PowerShell/Filecoder trojan
Win/Filecoder.GandCrab trojan
Python/Filecoder trojan
Win/LockScreen trojan
Ransomware detection trend in H1 2023 and H2 2023, seven-day moving average
Top 10 Ransomware detections in H2 2023 (% of Ransomware detections)
H2
H1
-15%
Ransomware
ESET THREAT REPORT
H2 2023 | 37
Threat landscape trends
Threat telemetry
Research publications
About this report
About ESET
Foreword
Executive summary
Geographic distribution of Ransomware detections in H2 2023
Ransomware
10%
0%
Web threat block trend in H1 2023 and H2 2023, seven-day moving average
Unique URL block trend in H1 2023 and H2 2023, seven-day moving average
H2
H1
+2%
H2
H1
+28%
Web threats
ESET THREAT REPORT
H2 2023 | 38
Threat landscape trends
Threat telemetry
Research publications
About this report
About ESET
Foreword
Executive summary
Global distribution of Web threat blocks in H2 2023
Global distribution of blocked domain hosting in H2 2023
Web threats
14%
0%
33%
0%
ESET THREAT REPORT
H2 2023 | 39
Threat landscape trends
Threat telemetry
Research publications
About this report
About ESET
Foreword
Executive summary
Research publications
Asylum Ambuscade: Crimeware or 
cyberespionage?
A curious case of a threat actor at the border between 
crimeware and cyberespionage
MoustachedBouncer: Espionage against 
foreign diplomats in Belarus 
Long-term espionage against diplomats, leveraging email-
based C&C protocols, C++ modular backdoors, and adversary-
in-the-middle (AitM) attacks… Sounds like the infamous 
Turla? Think again!
Telekopye: Hunting Mammoths using 
Telegram bot 
Analysis of Telegram bot that helps cybercriminals scam 
people on online marketplaces
Android GravityRAT goes after WhatsApp 
backups 
ESET researchers analyzed an updated version of Android 
GravityRAT spyware that steals WhatsApp backup files and 
can receive commands to delete files
Mass-spreading campaign targeting Zimbra 
users
ESET researchers have observed a new phishing campaign 
targeting users of the Zimbra Collaboration email server.
BadBazaar espionage tool targets Android 
users via trojanized Signal and Telegram 
apps 
ESET researchers have discovered active campaigns linked 
to the China-aligned APT group known as GREF, distributing 
espionage code that has previously targeted Uyghurs
Stealth Falcon preying over Middle Eastern 
skies with Deadglyph
ESET researchers have discovered Deadglyph, a sophisticated 
backdoor used by the infamous Stealth Falcon group for 
espionage in the Middle East
What’s up with Emotet?
A brief summary of what happened with Emotet since its 
comeback in November 2021
Scarabs colon-izing vulnerable servers 
Analysis of Spacecolon, a toolset used to deploy Scarab 
ransomware on vulnerable servers, and its operators, 
CosmicBeetle
Sponsor with batch-filed whiskers: Ballistic 
Bobcat’s scan and strike backdoor 
ESET Research uncovers the Sponsoring Access campaign, 
which utilizes an undocumented Ballistic Bobcat backdoor we 
have named Sponsor
Lazarus luring employees with trojanized 
coding challenges: The case of a Spanish 
aerospace company 
While analyzing a Lazarus attack luring employees of an 
aerospace company, ESET researchers discovered a publicly 
undocumented backdoor
ESET Research Podcast: Finding the 
mythical BlackLotus bootkit
Here’s a story of how an analysis of a supposed game cheat 
turned into the discovery of a powerful UEFI threat
ESET Research Podcast: Unmasking 
MoustachedBouncer 
Listen as ESET's Director of Threat Research Jean-Ian 
Boutin unravels the tactics, techniques and procedures of 
MoustachedBouncer, an APT group taking aim at foreign 
embassies in Belarus
ESET Research Podcast: Sextortion, digital 
usury and SQL brute-force
Closing intrusion vectors force cybercriminals to revisit old 
attack avenues, but also to look for new ways to attack their 
victims
OilRig’s Outer Space and Juicy Mix: Same ol’ 
rig, new drill pipes 
ESET researchers document OilRig’s Outer Space and Juicy 
Mix campaigns, targeting Israeli organizations in 2021 and 
2022
ESET THREAT REPORT
H2 2023 | 40
Threat landscape trends
Threat telemetry
Research publications
About this report
About ESET
Foreword
Executive summary
ESET APT Activity Report Q2–Q3 2023 
An overview of the activities of selected APT groups 
investigated and analyzed by ESET Research in Q2 and Q3 
2023
Who killed Mozi? Finally putting the IoT 
zombie botnet in its grave
How ESET Research found a kill switch that had been used to 
take down one of the most prolific botnets out there
Unlucky Kamran: Android malware spying 
on Urdu-speaking residents of Gilgit-
Baltistan 
ESET researchers discovered Kamran, previously unknown 
malware, which spies on Urdu-speaking readers of Hunza 
News
Telekopye: Chamber of Neanderthals’ 
secrets
Insight into groups operating Telekopye bots that scam 
people in online marketplaces
Operation Jacana: Foundling hobbits in 
Guyana 
ESET researchers discovered a cyberespionage campaign 
against a governmental entity in Guyana
Operation King TUT: The universe of 
threats in LATAM 
ESET researchers reveal a growing sophistication in threats 
affecting the LATAM region by employing evasion techniques 
and high-value targeting
Winter Vivern exploits zero-day 
vulnerability in Roundcube Webmail 
servers 
ESET Research recommends updating Roundcube Webmail to 
the latest available version as soon as possible
ESET THREAT REPORT
H2 2023 | 41
Threat landscape trends
Threat telemetry
Research publications
About this report
About ESET
Foreword
Executive summary
Credits
About the data 
in this report
Team
Peter Stančík, Team Lead
Hana Matušková, Managing Editor
Aryeh Goretsky
Branislav Ondrášik
Bruce P. Burrell
Klára Kobáková
Nick FitzGerald
Ondrej Kubovič
Rene Holt
Zuzana Pardubská
Contributors
Anton Mäčko
Dušan Lacika
Igor Kabina 
Ivan Bešina
Jakub Souček
Ján Adámek
Ján Šugarek
Jiří Kropáč 
Ladislav Janko
Lukáš Štefanko 
Martin Červeň
Michal Kopera
Michal Malík
Michal Škuta
Milan Fránik
Miloš Čermák 
Patrik Sučanský
Vladimír Šimčák
Witold Gerstendorf
The threat statistics and trends presented in this report 
are based on global telemetry data from ESET. Unless 
explicitly stated otherwise, the data includes detections 
regardless of the targeted platform. 
Further, the data excludes detections of potentially 
unwanted applications, potentially unsafe applications 
and adware, except where noted in the more detailed, 
platform-specific sections and in the Cryptocurrency 
threats section. 
This data was processed with the honest intention to 
mitigate all known biases, in an effort to maximize the 
value of the information provided. 
Most of the charts in this report show detection trends 
rather than provide absolute numbers. This is because 
the data can be prone to various misinterpretations, 
especially when directly compared to other telemetry 
data. However, absolute values or orders of magnitude 
are provided where deemed beneficial.
ESET THREAT REPORT
H2 2023 | 42
(eset):research
© 2023 ESET, spol. s r.o. - All rights reserved.
Trademarks used herein are trademarks or registered trademarks of ESET, spol. s r.o.
All other names and brands are registered trademarks of their respective companies.
Threat landscape trends
Threat telemetry
Research publications
About this report
About ESET
Foreword
Executive summary
About ESET
For more than 30 years, ESET has been developing 
industry-leading IT security software and services to 
deliver comprehensive, multilayered protection against 
cybersecurity threats for businesses and consumers 
worldwide. ESET has long pioneered machine learning 
and cloud technologies that prevent, detect and respond 
to malware. ESET is a privately owned company that 
promotes scientific research and development worldwide.
WeLiveSecurity.com
@ESETresearch
ESET GitHub
ESET Threat Reports and APT Activity Reports
