1/18
bbs-360-cn.translate.goog
/thread-14959110-1-1.html
Spy Tracker: The world's first UEFI motherboard BIOS Trojan
analysis
This post was last edited by Airplane at 2017-5-3 17:06
 
▌ 0x00 Introduction

Not long ago, Mr. Li, a netizen in Guangzhou, asked the 360 ​​Security Center for help, and reported
that his computer system automatically created an unfamiliar account named aaaabbbb, and the
antivirus software repeatedly reported the virus, and even reinstalling the system still could not
remove the virus.
After the preliminary judgment of 360 engineers' remote assistance, Mr. Li's computer motherboard
BIOS is likely to be infected with malicious code. To this end, we asked Mr. Li to mail the
motherboard to the Beijing headquarters of 360 Company for analysis, and found that this is a new
type of BIOS BOOTKIT that has never been seen before. Since it will set up a spy account in the
system for remote control, we named it Spy Shadow Trojan.
Compared with the previous BIOS malicious code, Spy Shadow Trojan has stronger compatibility
and higher technical level:
1. The world's first real attack to infect UEFI motherboards. Spy Shadow Trojan supports a lot of
BIOS versions, and it is the only known Trojan that can infect UEFI motherboards. The Spy
Shadow Trojan will infect the BIOS boot module in UEFI compatibility mode, and UEFI+GPT mode
will not be affected. The BMW BIOS Trojan (named Mebromi by foreign manufacturers) that
appeared in 2011 only supports the infection of a specific Award BIOS;
2/18
2. Strong system compatibility, supports all mainstream 32-bit and 64-bit Windows platforms,
including the latest 64-bit Win10.
 
Figure: 64-bit Win10 infected spyware Trojan triggers Microsoft PATCH GUARD, causing repeated
blue screen [/i]
It is understood that Mr. Li purchased this second-hand motherboard from an online store.
According to the phenomenon of Internet search for spyware Trojans, Mr. Li's experience is not an
exception. It is speculated from the existing samples that the malicious code may be flashed into
the motherboard BIOS by the programmer, and sold and circulated through e-commerce channels.
In view of the complexity and particularity of the motherboard structure, at this stage, only by re-
flashing the BIOS can completely remove the Spy Shadow Trojan. The following is a detailed
analysis of the technical principles of the Spy Shadow Trojan.
▌ 0x01 BIOS and UEFI
BIOS is an acronym for English \Basic Input Output System\, and the Chinese name after literal
translation is \Basic Input Output System\. In fact, it is a set of programs that are solidified on a
ROM chip on the motherboard of the computer. It saves the most important basic input and output
programs of the computer, system setting information, self-checking programs after booting, and
system self-starting programs. Executes prior to the operating system and is responsible for
loading and executing the MBR code. Its main function is to provide the computer with the lowest-
level, most direct hardware settings and control.
3/18
UEFI (Unified Extensible Firmware Interface) stands for "Unified Extensible Firmware Interface". It
is a new motherboard boot item. It is being regarded as the successor of BIOS with a history of
more than 20 years. Since Win8, it has been promoted by Microsoft. push. UEFI claims to be able
to resist Bootkit attacks by protecting the pre-boot or pre-boot process, and has higher security
than BIOS.
▌ 0x02 Technical Analysis
2.1 CSM module analysis
The Trojan is located in the BIOS file
 
The motherboard is B85M-G-ASUS-0904 from ASUS. Different from the normal BIOS, the
CSMCORE module on the Ma motherboard is larger than the normal one. Should only work in
LEGACY MODE, booting via UEFI should not work. (CSM (Compatibility support Module) means
compatibility module, this option is specially set for compatibility with devices that can only work in
legacy mode and operating systems that do not support or fully support UEFI.)
 
The Trojan adds its own functions to the BIOS module and hooks the normal functions of the
system to execute.
The normal function is as follows:
4/18
 
The Trojan hooked this function to:
 
Change the first instruction of the original function to CALL to get an execution opportunity:
5/18
 
After that, it will judge whether the content of the R9 register is 3, which may be a sign of the
successful initialization of the BIOS, and then search for the BIOS internal feature code CD 19 B8
00 80 CB 00
It should be the code executed by calling interrupt INT19H to load the first sector MBR of the hard
disk after the internal initialization of the BIOS. Then modify the data at 0X413, reserve 40KB
space to store the Trojan code, and copy the code in the BIOS to the reserved space. And after the
internal initialization of the BIOS found earlier, call the interrupt INT19H to load the code executed
by the MBR of the first sector of the hard disk, and call the code of the Trojan horse itself instead.
6/18
 
2.2 INT15 hook analysis
Then, return to continue execution. When the BIOS is initialized and ready to load the MBR code
of the disk, the code of the Trojan will be executed. At this time, the Trojan will hook the INT15H
interrupt, and then resume the execution of the original code, so that the hook is completed. The
follow-up is similar to the MBR Trojan of the Dark Cloud series. It hooks the memory step by step
by hooking INT15H and loads itself.
 
7/18
In this way, when the system MBR is executed, the Trojan has already hung the HOOK of INT15h
in the memory. After that, it will HOOK bootmgr!Archx86TransferTo64BitApplicationAsm to get the
next execution opportunity, and then HOOK winload!OslArchTransferToKernel, and then HOOK
when the kernel is loaded. ZwCreateSection , thus cutting into the kernel to run, and then setting
the thread callback.
2.3 Thread callback hook
Next, the thread callback PsSetCreateThreadNotifyRoutine and the process callback
PsSetCreateProcessNotifyRoutine will be set. In the process callback, only \Process %d Create
%d\\n\ is printed, and the thread callback is the key content.
 
In the thread callback, the Trojan determines whether it is the csrss.exe process. If it is not, it skips
it. If it is, it creates a system thread and inserts a worker thread to erase its own thread callback.
8/18
 
2.4 Kernel thread network download code
In the created system thread, it will wait for 1 minute to wait for the network to be ready.
 
9/18
Then it will try to use two methods to download malicious code to the kernel for execution, firstly try
UDP DownLoadShellCodeByUDP, the function is to resolve [url=]www.XXXX.top [/url] [/i] domain
name. Using 0xDEDE43D0 0x8080808, the two sets of DNS domain names are converted, namely
(222.222.67.208 8.8.8.8) and [url=]www.XXXXtop [/url] [/i] The communication port is 0x801F,
which is port 8064.
First use 0x3500, namely port 53, to request the domain name service, and get the address
corresponding to the [url=]www.XXXX.top[/url] [/i] domain name.
 
First request the server, ask the Shellcode length fragment size, then process the fragments one
by one, and finally splicing them together.
The send packet is 0x10 in length.
 
Accept packets as:
10/18
 
The total length is 0x28, the header length is 0x10, the data part length is 0x18, and the checksum
is 0xd845672a.
Shellcode length is 0x1a32d, there are 0xd2 shards in total, and each shard is 0x200 in size.
When using UDP to send and receive data, the data part will be checked.
 
If the verification is successful, they will be spliced ​​together, otherwise discarded, and then apply
for non-paged memory.
11/18
Copy and execute the previous memory code, passing in the NT base address as a parameter.
 
2.5 Decrypt malicious code and deliver APC
Only the header of the downloaded code can be executed, and the latter part is encrypted data,
which needs to be decrypted and executed. The calling function is RtlDecompressBuffer, the size
after decryption is 150728, and the decryption method is OMPRESSION_FORMAT_LZNT1.
 
Then the populate import table is called:
12/18
 
Then call PsCreateSystemThread to create the injection thread.
In thread:
 
The first to find system process injection is spoolsv.exe.
13/18
 
Then kill the soft process:
 
Apply for memory copy injection:
14/18
 
Insert APC injection:
 
2.6 Execute user-level malicious download code
After injection, it is executed from the application layer. The code contains a DLL file, and the
execution function is to apply for the memory base address.
15/18
 
Then get the base address of the Kernel32 module, follow LoadLibraryA GetProcAddress
VirtualAlloc, fill the PE file import table in the memory, and execute the DllMain function after filling.
 
A thread will be created in DllMain, the download will be executed and run, and related services
will be suspended or deleted according to the control code.
thread function:
 
16/18
The privilege escalation operation decrypts the download address data. The decrypted content is:
 
Pause or delete the service according to the control code:
 
Then run in three ways: (DLL loading, parent process injection, directly creating EXE to run)
 
2.7 Create malicious accounts
17/18
Downloaded here is an EXE, the main function is to create an administrator account.
 
screenshot:
 
▌ 0x03 Conclusion
Shadow Trojans can parasitize in various versions of BIOS including UEFI motherboards, infect
the BIOS boot module in a very precise and targeted manner, and implement remote control by
killing the entire Windows platform, showing a high-risk, high-complexity and high-tech " Three
high" features.
In order to prevent spyware Trojans, 360 Security Center recommends that netizens : try to
choose official channels to buy computer accessories, and enable real-time protection of security
software. If you encounter suspicious situations such as slow computer startup and login interface,
unfamiliar accounts in the system, and repeated virus reporting by security software, it is best to
seek help from security vendors to prevent Trojan horse viruses from causing damage to personal
data and property
18/18
