An overview of Russia’s cyberattack activity in Ukraine
Special Report: Ukraine
April 27, 2022
Digital Security Unit
This report details the cyber activity Microsoft has observed 
as part of the war in Ukraine, and the work we have done in 
collaboration with Ukrainian cybersecurity officials and private 
sector enterprises to defend against cyberattacks.  Microsoft’s 
ongoing, daily engagement establishes that the cyber 
component of Russia’s assault on Ukraine has been destructive 
and relentless. The purpose of this report is to provide insights 
into the scope, scale, and methods of Russia’s use of cyber 
capabilities as part of the largescale “hybrid” war in Ukraine, to 
acknowledge the work of organizations in Ukraine defending 
against persistent adversaries, and to provide strategic 
recommendations to organizations worldwide.
Throughout this conflict, we have observed Russian 
nation state cyber actors conducting intrusions in 
concert with kinetic military action. 
At least six Russian Advanced Persistent Threat (APT) actors 
and other unattributed threats, have conducted destructive 
attacks, espionage operations, or both, while Russian military 
forces attack the country by land, air, and sea. It is unclear 
whether computer network operators and physical forces 
are just independently pursuing a common set of priorities 
or actively coordinating. However, collectively, the cyber 
and kinetic actions work to disrupt or degrade Ukrainian 
government and military functions and undermine the 
public’s trust in those same institutions.  
Destructive attacks have been a prominent component 
of Russian cyber operations during conflict.
A day before the military invasion, operators associated 
with the GRU, Russia’s military intelligence service, launched 
destructive wiper attacks on hundreds of systems in Ukrainian 
government, IT, energy, and financial organizations. Since 
then, the activity we have observed has included attempts to 
destroy, disrupt, or infiltrate networks of government agencies, 
and a wide range of critical infrastructure organizations, which 
Russian military forces have in some cases targeted with 
ground attacks and missile strikes. These network operations 
have at times not only degraded the functions of the targeted 
organizations but sought to disrupt citizens’ access to reliable 
information and critical life services, and to shake confidence 
in the country’s leadership. 
Cyberattacks in Ukraine
Based on Russian military goals for information warfare, these 
actions are likely aimed at undermining Ukraine’s political will 
and ability to continue the fight, while facilitating collection of 
intelligence that could provide tactical or strategic advantages 
to Russian forces. Through our engagements with customers 
in Ukraine, we have observed that Russia’s computer-enabled 
efforts have had an impact in terms of technical disruption of 
services and causing a chaotic information environment, but 
Microsoft is not able to evaluate their broader strategic impact.   
Russian military views on information warfare 
The Russian military defines information warfare as 
“confrontation in the information space with the goal 
of causing damage to critical information systems, 
undermining political, economic, and social systems, 
psychologically manipulating the public to destabilize the 
state and coerce the state to make decisions to benefit 
the adversary party”, according to public Defense Ministry 
documents.1 The collective comments of several former 
Russian military officials, including a former Chief of the 
General Staff, suggest a view that operations to degrade 
troop morale, discredit the leadership, and undermine 
the military and economic potential of the enemy via 
information means can at times be more effective than 
traditional weapons.2  
Page 02 of 21
1 Conceptual Views of the Armed Forces of the Russian Federation’s Action in Information Space, 2011
2 https://ria.ru/20170222/1488617708.html
Microsoft security teams have worked closely with Ukrainian 
government officials and cybersecurity staff at government 
organizations and private enterprises to identify and 
remediate threat activity against Ukrainian networks. In 
January, the Microsoft Threat Intelligence Center (MSTIC) 
discovered wiper malware in more than a dozen networks in 
Ukraine. We alerted the Ukrainian government and published 
our findings.3 Following that incident, we established a secure 
line of communication with key cyber officials in Ukraine to 
be sure that moving forward, we were working with trusted 
experts to help Ukrainian government agencies, enterprises, 
and organizations defend against attacks.  
This focused engagement combined with our unique view 
into affected systems has offered insights into Russian cyber 
targets, tactics, and procedures so far, and provided new 
insights on how to approach network defense for customers 
embroiled in military conflict.
Based on our observations, known and suspected Russian 
nation-state actors are working to compromise organizations 
in regions across Ukraine. These actors use a variety of 
techniques to gain initial access to their targets, including 
phishing campaigns, exploiting unpatched vulnerabilities in 
on-premises Exchange servers, and compromising upstream 
IT service providers. This initial access allows them to conduct 
operations for destruction, data exfiltration, and persistence 
for longer-term espionage and surveillance. 
Threat groups with known or suspected ties to the GRU have 
continuously developed and used destructive wiper malware 
or similarly destructive tools on targeted Ukrainian networks 
at a pace of two to three incidents a week since the eve 
of invasion. From February 23 to April 8, we saw evidence 
of nearly 40 discrete destructive attacks that permanently 
destroyed files in hundreds of systems across dozens of 
organizations in Ukraine. 
Microsoft’s engagement 
Tracked malware families levereged for 
destructive activity
•    WhisperGate / WhisperKill
•    FoxBlade, aka Hermetic Wiper
•    SonicVote, aka HermeticRansom
•    CaddyWiper
•    DesertBlade
•    Industroyer2
•    Lasainraw, aka IssacWiper
•    FiberLake, aka DoubleZero
WhisperGate, FoxBlade, DesertBlade, and CaddyWiper 
are all malware families that overwrite data and render 
machines unbootable. FiberLake is a .NET capability 
being used for data deletion. SonicVote is a file encryptor 
sometimes used together with FoxBlade. Industroyer2 
specifically targets operational technology to achieve 
physical effects in industrial production and processes.
Page 03 of 21
3 https://www.microsoft.com/security/blog/2022/01/15/destructive-malware-targeting-ukrainian-organizations/; 
https://blogs.microsoft.com/on-the-issues/2022/02/28/ukraine-russia-digital-war-cyberattacks/
More than 40% of the destructive attacks were aimed at 
organizations in critical infrastructure sectors that could have 
negative second-order effects on the government, military, 
economy, and people. Thirty-two percent of destructive 
incidents affected Ukrainian government organizations at 
the national, regional, and city levels. Microsoft has also 
observed that the threat actors are slightly modifying the 
malware to evade detection with each wave of deployment. 
Acknowledging that there is ongoing activity that we cannot 
see, we estimate there have been at least eight destructive 
malware families deployed on Ukrainian networks, including 
one tailored to industrial control systems (ICS). If threat 
actors can maintain the current pace of development and 
deployment, we anticipate more destructive malware will be 
discovered as the conflict continues. 
Detected destructive cyberattacks in Ukraine by week 
Destructive incidents are counted by organization not by impacted systems. Malware may have destroyed data across multiple systems at a single organization, 
but we count that as one destructive incident.
Known and suspected Russian threat actors deployed malware and abused legitimate utilities 37 times to destroy data on targeted systems. 
SecureDelete is a legitimate Windows utility that threat actors abused to permanently delete data from targeted devices. 
Destructive attacks in Ukraine  
Week 1
(February 23-March 2)
Week 3
(March 10-16)
Week 4
(March 17-23)
Week 5
(March 24-30)
Week 6 and beyond
(March 31-April 8)
Week 2
(March 3-9)
Destructive malware: FoxBlade, Lasainraw (IsaacWiper), 
DesertBlade, malicious use of SecureDelete utility
Number of destructive incidents: 22
Destructive malware: FoxBlade, malicious use of SecureDelete utility
Number of destructive incidents: 4
Destructive malware: DesertBlade, FiberLake, SonicVote, 
malicious use of SecureDelete utility
Number of destructive incidents: 6
Destructive malware: FoxBlade, SonicVote, malicious use of SecureDelete utility
Number of destructive incidents: 3
Destructive malware: CaddyWiper, Industroyer2
Number of destructive incidents 2
Distructive malware: none
Number of destructive incidents: 0
Page 04 of 21
Microsoft assesses that Russia-aligned threat groups were 
pre-positioning for conflict as early as March 2021, when 
threat actors that had sporadically targeted Ukraine in the past 
started to conduct more actions against organizations inside 
or allied with Ukraine. While we cannot speak to the level of 
coordination between disparate threat groups, combined, 
their activities appeared aimed at securing persistent access for 
strategic and battlefield intelligence collection or to facilitate 
future destructive attacks in Ukraine during military conflict. 
This graphic is a snapshot of Russian cyber threat actors MSTIC observed executing operations specifically against Ukrainian targets before the invasion and examples of 
their activities. Ukrainian military and cyber responders have been dealing with Russian aggression since at least the first Russian invasion in 2014, making it difficult to 
identify an exact time when long-term espionage may have shifted to support invasion preparation.
Russian preparation for war  
SVR
GRU
FSB
aka APT 28
Data theft
Phishing (Military targets)
Unit 26165 
Russia
STRONTIUM
aka Gamaredon
Phishing 
Data theft
Russia
ACTINIUM
aka Sandworm 
Destruction: FoxBlade wiper; 
CaddyWiper, Industroyer2
Unit 74455 
Russia
IRIDIUM
aka EnergeticBear
Data theft
Unit 71330 
Russia
BROMINE
Destruction: WhisperGate wiper 
Data theft
Influence operations
Russia
DEV-0586
*Suspected GRU 
affiliation
aka Turla
Reconnaissance 
Phishing
Russia
KRYPTON
aka UNC2452/2652
Password spray, phishing 
(Ukrainian and NATO member 
diplomatic targets)
Russia
NOBELIUM
Page 05 of 21
Sought access to insights on Ukrainian defense and 
foreign partnerships.  
In early 2021, when Russian troops first started to move 
en masse toward the border with Ukraine, we saw efforts to 
gain initial access to targets that could provide intelligence 
on Ukraine’s military and foreign partnerships. Russian actor 
NOBELIUM launched a large-scale phishing campaign against 
Ukrainian interests involved in rallying international support 
against Russian actions. Similarly, DEV-0257 (publicly known 
as Ghostwriter) began phishing campaigns attempting to gain 
access to Ukrainian military email accounts and networks.
Positioned themselves for third-party attacks on 
networks in Ukraine and partner nations. 
By mid-2021, Microsoft observed known and suspected 
Russian threat actors separately targeting supply chain vendors 
in Ukraine and abroad to secure accesses and pre-position for 
future third-party intrusions against Ukraine and its partners in 
NATO. DEV-0586, a previously unknown group with suspected 
Russian military ties, had compromised the network of an IT 
firm that built resource management systems for Ukraine’s 
Ministry of Defense and organizations in the communications 
and transportation sectors.  
NOBELIUM attempted to access IT firms serving government 
customers in predominantly NATO member states, at times 
successfully compromising then leveraging privileged 
accounts to breach and steal data from Western foreign policy 
organizations. Beyond broader value derived from what 
appear to be traditional espionage operations, persistent 
access to foreign policy organizations in NATO member states 
could provide Russian leadership continuous insights on 
what to expect from the West in response to Russian actions 
in Ukraine. Roughly 93% of all Russia-backed attack activity 
observed in our online services was aimed at NATO member 
states, particularly against the United States, the United 
Kingdom, Norway, Germany, and Turkey through 2021. 
Sought access to insights on military and humanitarian 
response capabilities. 
As 2021 progressed, threat actors representing multiple Russian 
government security services converged on Ukraine to surveil 
or compromise organizations that could provide valuable 
intelligence on a Ukrainian military, diplomatic, or humanitarian 
response to Russian military action. ACTINIUM launched spear-
phishing campaigns to gain access to accounts of Ukraine-based 
foreign military advisors and humanitarian workers, in August. 
Around the same time, STRONTIUM attempted to compromise 
defense-related organizations in Ukraine. ACTINIUM, 
NOBELIUM, BROMINE, SEABORGIUM, and DEV-0257 sought 
persistent access to their particular interests among a total 
target pool that included Ukrainian defense, defense industrial 
base, foreign policy, national and local administration, law 
enforcement, and humanitarian organizations.
Secured access to critical infrastructure for 
future destruction. 
Threat actors also established the access and persistence on 
networks for future destructive attacks. In late 2021, suspected 
Russian cyber actors positioned themselves in networks of 
Ukrainian energy and IT providers that were later targets of 
destructive attacks, including Kitsoft, the IT service provider that 
DEV-0586 compromised to facilitate destruction on the networks 
of several clients in January 2022.4 
The chart above represents the geographic distribution of customers notified 
of all nation state threat activity, not just Russian, between July 1, 2020, and 
June 30, 2021. By June 2021, Ukraine was the second-most impacted country 
we observed, reflecting 19% of all notifications of nation-state threat activity 
that we provided to customers during that time, largely due to the ramp up 
of Russian activity.
Most targeted countries 
(July 2020 to June 2021)
Ukraine	
19%
Other	
11%
United Kingdom	 9%
Belgium	
3%
Japan	
3%
Germany	
3%
Israel	
2%
Moldova	
2%
Portugal	
1%
Saudi Arabia	
1%
United States	
46%
Page 06 of 21
4 https://www.cnn.com/2022/01/14/europe/ukraine-cyber-attack-government-intl/index.html;
https://zetter.substack.com/p/dozens-of-computers-in-ukraine-wiped?s=r
In early 2022, when diplomatic efforts failed to de-escalate 
mounting tensions around Russia’s military build-up along 
Ukraine’s borders, Russian threat actors launched destructive 
wiper malware attacks against Ukrainian organizations with 
increasing intensity. These efforts signaled that Russian actions 
in Ukraine had entered a destructive phase that could escalate 
further. In early January, DEV-0586 launched WhisperGate5 
malware which sought and deleted selected file extensions 
and then manipulated the Master Boot Record (MBR) to 
render targeted machines inoperable. This destructive malware 
impacted a limited number of government and IT sector 
systems, which coupled with the defacement of Ukrainian 
government websites in February, may have served as 
warnings intended to prompt Ukrainian concessions. 
Pre-invasion timeline indicates Russian threat actors launched increasingly disruptive and visible cyberattacks against Ukraine on the heels of major diplomatic failures 
related to the conflict.
Cyberattacks intensified on the eve of the Russian invasion, 
when IRIDIUM deployed FoxBlade6 (aka HermeticWiper) 
malware to destroy roughly 300 systems across more than a 
dozen government, IT, energy, agricultural, and financial sector 
organizations in Ukraine. Unlike IRIDIUM’s NotPetya worm, 
FoxBlade deployment was tailored to specific environments. 
Once deployed, it moves quickly to impact all domain-joined 
devices within a targeted organization. 
Destructive attacks signal imminent invasion 
January
February
INVASION BEGINS
Political-military events
January 13 
Intensive 
diplomatic 
talks between 
Russia, US, 
Ukraine, NATO, 
Europe fail.
February 1 
President Putin says the US and NATO 
completely ignored Russian security 
demands, after reviewing written 
responses that the US and NATO had 
submitted to Russian demands.
February 21
President Putin recognizes 
independence of Ukrainian  
separatist regions, nullifying 
terms of existing Minsk peace 
agreements with Ukraine.
February 24
Russia invades 
Ukraine.
January 13
DEV-0586 deploys 
WhisperGate wiper 
to limited number 
of Ukrainian government 
and IT sector systems.  
January 14
DEV-0586 defaces and an 
unknown actor starts a 
distributed denial of service 
(DDoS) attack on Ukrainian 
government websites. 
February 15–16
Russian military 
intelligence (GRU) 
DDoS attacks against 
Ukrainian financial
institutions. 
February 23
IRIDIUM deploys FoxBlade 
wiper to hundreds of 
systems in Ukrainian 
government, IT, energy, 
and financial sectors. 
February 24
External reporting indicates that 
the GRU launches a denial of 
service attack against Viasat, 
disrupting broadband service 
to tens of thousands of users in 
Ukraine and throughout Europe. 
Cyberattacks
February 17 
Kremlin said it would be “forced to respond” 
with military-technical measures if the US 
continued to ignore calls for guarantees that 
Ukraine will never be admitted to NATO but 
denied plans to invade Ukraine.
Page 07 of 21
5 https://www.microsoft.com/security/blog/2022/01/15/destructive-malware-targeting-ukrainian-organizations/
6 https://blogs.microsoft.com/on-the-issues/2022/02/28/ukraine-russia-digital-war-cyberattacks/

Since the beginning of Russia’s invasion of Ukraine on February 24, 
Microsoft has observed Russian cyber threat groups performing 
actions in support of their military’s strategic and tactical 
objectives. A timeline of military strikes and cyber intrusions 
shows several examples of computer network operations 
and military operations seeming to work in tandem against a 
shared target set, though it is unclear if there is coordination, 
centralized tasking or merely a common set of understood 
priorities driving the correlation. At times, computer network 
attacks immediately preceded a military attack, but those 
instances have been rare from our perspective. The cyber 
operations so far have been consistent with actions to degrade, 
disrupt, or discredit Ukrainian government, military, and 
economic functions, secure footholds in critical infrastructure, 
and to reduce the Ukrainian public’s access to information. 
A note on attribution:
MSTIC assesses with moderate confidence that IRIDIUM, 
an activity group that the US Government has attributed to 
the GRU Main Center for Special Technologies (Unit 74455), 
is linked to intrusion activity leading to the deployment of 
FoxBlade, CaddyWiper, and Industroyer2 in Ukraine.
Russia invades Ukraine
February
March
April
Military strikes
Cyber intrusions or attacks
February 24 
Russian tanks 
advance into 
Sumy city 
center
February 14 
Odessa-based 
critical infrastructure 
compromised by 
likely Russian actors
February 17 
Suspected 
Russian actors 
present on critical 
infrastructure 
networks in Sumy
February 28 
Threat actor 
compromises 
a Kyiv-based 
media company
March 1 
Kyiv-based 
media companies 
face destructive 
attacks and data 
exfiltration 
March 2 
Russian group 
moves laterally 
on network of 
Ukrainian nuclear 
power company 
March 4 
STRONTIUM 
compromises 
government 
network in 
Vinnytsia 
March 11 
Dnipro 
government 
agency targeted 
with destructive 
implant 
March 1 
Missile strikes 
Kyiv TV  tower
March 3 
Widespread 
electricity outages 
in Sumy, including 
blasts at power 
stations
March 3 
Russia’s military 
occupies 
Ukraine’s 
largest nuclear 
power station
March 6 
Russian forces 
launch eight 
missiles at 
Vinnytsia 
airport
March 11 
First Russian 
strikes in 
Dnipro hit 
government 
buildings
March 16 
Russian 
rockets 
strike TV 
tower in 
Vinnytsia
April 3 
Russian airstrikes 
hit fuel depots 
and processing 
plants around 
Odessa
Legend:
Critical Infrastructure
Electrical Infrastructure
Nuclear Energy
Transportation
Media
Government
Page 08 of 21
At least six known or suspected Russian cyber threat groups 
in addition to other unattributed threat actors are engaged 
in activities that range from reconnaissance and phishing 
for initial access to pervasive lateral movement, data theft, 
and data deletion. The multiple phases of their operations 
suggest these actors are positioning themselves for continued 
compromises and impact on Ukrainian networks for the 
duration of this conflict and beyond. 
Russian cyber operations against Ukrainian organizations grew significantly leading up to and following Moscow’s invasion. That growth occurred across the full 
spectrum of cyber operations from research and tool preparation (“Tooling and Reconnaissance”) to gaining access, establishing persistence, and lateral movement 
(“Actions on Network”) to exfiltration and destruction of data (“Actions on Objectives”), with 237 such events in total during this period. We did not include activity in 
Russian-annexed Crimea in our analysis. 
Multiple threat actors involved
December 2021
January 2022
February 2022
March 2022
Stages of Russian cyber operations in Ukraine since December
Observed
events
Legend:
Tooling and Reconnaissance
60
40
20
6
5
4
2
Actions on Network
Actions on Objectives (Data Exfil/Destruction)
18
12
11
14
40
28
24
73
Page 09 of 21
Based on our direct engagement with impacted entities 
in Ukraine, we observed that cyber and kinetic military 
operations appeared to be directed toward similar military 
objectives. Threat activity groups often targeted the same 
sectors or geographic locations around the same time as 
kinetic military events. Analysis of Microsoft signals with 
open-source kinetic attack data shows high concentrations of 
malicious network activity frequently overlapped with high-
intensity fighting during the first six plus weeks of the invasion. 
(see map of Kinetic and cyber activity).  
High kinetic: 
Regions which reflect more than 90% of daily reported 
Russian physical attacks in the data sources.
High cyber:
Regions which reflect more than 80% of daily detected and 
blocked actor indicators in Microsoft Defender Antivirus.
Time frame: 
February 23 through April 6.
Data sources: 
Detected and blocked activity by Microsoft Defender Antivirus 
based on known actor indicators; open source data on kinetic 
attacks from the Armed Conflict Location and Event Data 
Project and the Centre for Information Resilience. Russian-
occupied Crimea was excluded from this analysis.
Cyber operations complement kinetic action 
Kinetic and cyber activity
Legend:
High kinetic/high cyber
High kinetic/low cyber
Low kinetic/high cyber
Low kinetic/low cyber
Page 10 of 21
The following week-by-week analysis provides a more granular 
view of the threat activity we observed in the context of 
Russian military operations to highlight consistent cyber-
kinetic congruence in the conflict. The insights are derived 
from a limited dataset, and our understanding of the threat 
actors and their objectives is likely to change as the conflict 
and our investigations continue. This initial view should serve 
as a starting reference for continued analytic work. 
The war by week
This chart provides a sample of Ukrainian industries impacted by known or suspected Russia-aligned network intrusions or destructive attacks during the Russian invasion 
of Ukraine. National government organizations and critical infrastructure sectors were top targets. The “Other” percentage represents 11 other categories of impacted 
organizations including regional and city-level government, agriculture, defense industrial base, healthcare, transportation, and finance, among others. 
Sample set of targets by industry
National Government
Other
IT Services
Energy
Media 
Communications 
Nuclear
Defense
Consumer Retail
Internet access & connection
2
2
2
3
3
4
4
7
11
19
20
18
16
14
12
10
8
6
4
2
0
Page 11 of 21
WEEK 1 (Feb 23 - Mar 2): 
Suspected Russian threat actors and Russian troops have 
attempted to control the information environment in Ukraine 
since the beginning of the conflict. During the first week of the 
invasion, suspected Russian threat actors launched DesertBlade 
against a major broadcasting company on March 1, the same 
day that the Russian military announced its intention to 
destroy “disinformation” targets in Ukraine and directed a 
missile strike against a TV tower in Kyiv.7 DesertBlade actions 
and the missile strike demonstrated cyber and kinetic impact 
to a key source of information to the Ukrainian public.  
•	
The Institute for War and Peace Reporting reported 
that the first thing that Russian troops did when they 
captured the southern city of Berdyansk on 27 February 
was to occupy the TV tower8 and turn off all broadcasts, 
underscoring broadcast and information control as a 
key kinetic and cyber military objective. Attempts to 
compromise and or stage destructive malware on media 
companies is a trend that has continued throughout 
this conflict. 
IRIDIUM conducted operations against Ukrainian economic 
targets, in line with Russian military objectives to degrade an 
adversary’s economy.  
•	
IRIDIUM staged a file encryptor on the network of an 
agricultural firm, holding this entity at risk for future 
destruction. Microsoft assesses that this was likely 
targeting grain production, a major export commodity 
in Ukraine’s economy. As of early April, the World Bank 
predicted the war would shrink Ukraine’s economy by 
45.1% this year in part by destroying infrastructure and 
choking of imports and exports.9
Photo of tv tower after missile strike. 
Page 12 of 21
7 https://web.archive.org/web/20220301133913/https://tass.com/defense/1414199
8 https://iwpr.net/global-voices/berdyansk-life-under-russian-occupation
9 https://abcnews.go.com/Business/wireStory/russias-war-shrink-ukraine-economy-45-world-bank-84008993

High:
Regions which reflect more than 50% of detected and blocked 
actor indicators in the given week.
Data source:
Detected and blocked activity by Microsoft Defender Antivirus 
based on known actor indicators. Russian-occupied Crimea was 
excluded from this analysis.
WEEK 2 (Mar 3 - 9): 
During this time, Russian military forces prepared for a major 
offensive on Kyiv, while known and suspected Russia-aligned 
threat actors attempted to compromise public information 
sources and communications infrastructure and increase 
insights into Ukrainian military operations.  
•	
Another suspected Russian threat actor conducted lateral 
movement on a communications sector system and 
expanded focused targeting of media organizations from 
broadcast organizations to compromise systems belonging 
to a digital media firm.  
•	
DEV-0257 and STRONTIUM sought access to military 
and regional government accounts by directing phishing 
campaigns against the Ukrainian military and government 
employees in central Ukraine, respectively. The regional 
government campaign was a shift toward tactical 
targeting by STRONTIUM, which has typically pursued 
national-level organizations. 
Weekly view of malicious cyber activity by region
Week of
February 23
Week of
March 16
Week of
March 2
Week of
March 23
Week of
March 9
Week of
March 30
Legend:
High
Low
Page 13 of 21
WEEK 3 (Mar 10 - 16): 
As military units captured nuclear power plants, and Russian 
military and state-run media pushed disinformation that 
Ukraine was working to create chemical and biological 
weapons, threat actors conducted operations to steal data 
from nuclear sector organizations that could assist those efforts.10 
•	
A suspected Russian threat actor compromised an 
institution in Ukraine that was featured in false Russian 
weapons conspiracies in the past. IRIDIUM, an actor with 
a history of leaking documents to support disinformation 
narratives, conducted an intrusion into the same research 
institution later in March.  
•	
On March 13, a suspected Russian nation state actor stole 
data from a nuclear safety organization that FSB-affiliated 
actor BROMINE had compromised in December 2021. 
BROMINE stole data from this entity from December 
through mid-March. In the first two weeks of the invasion, 
Russian troops seized the defunct Chernobyl nuclear 
power plant and the Zaporizhzhia Nuclear Power plant, 
the largest in Europe, indicating a clear military interest in 
nuclear energy targets.11 
WEEK 4 (Mar 17 - 23): 
Threat actors targeted logistics providers and regional 
government organizations in advance of the Russian military’s 
announcement of a strategic refocus12 on eastern Ukraine.  
•	
IRIDIUM conducted a destructive attack on the network 
of a transportation/logistics provider, the type of 
organization that could be involved in moving Ukrainian 
supplies to conflict hotspots. The firm is headquartered in 
Western Ukraine, where much of the foreign military and 
humanitarian assistance is entering the country.  
•	
The week prior, a suspected Russian actor deleted data 
from a regional government network in eastern Ukraine, 
disrupting government services there.  
WEEK 5 (Mar 24 - 30): 
Suspected Russia-aligned threat actors targeted Ukrainian 
civilian support and communications sector organizations, as 
Russian and Ukrainian peace negotiators13 met in Turkey to 
discuss a resolution to the conflict.  
•	
Unknown actors compromised and potentially destroyed 
data at a portal that connects citizens to government 
services and compromised the network of another major 
media organization. Separately, Ukrainian authorities 
reported14 that they brought down five “enemy” bot farms 
that had been spreading disinformation about the Russian 
invasion to the Ukrainian public since February 24.  
•	
Microsoft observed suspected Russia-aligned threat 
actors attempt to escalate privileges in the network of a 
communications provider network and broaden targeting 
efforts to compromise a mobile communications provider. 
Separately, Forbes reported that Ukraine’s largest fixed line 
telecommunications provider, Ukrtelecom, had suffered 
a severe cyberattack, which NetBlocks claims brought the 
service down to 13% of its pre-war levels.15 This provides 
another data point on communications sector targeting. 
Ukrainian Foreign Minister Kuleba tweet highlights a potential danger of Russian 
government narratives around chemical and biological weapons in Ukraine. 
Page 14 of 21
10 https://abcnews.go.com/Politics/russia-escalates-false-chemical-weapons-claims-us-ukraine/story?id=83366504
11 https://en.as.com/en/2022/03/07/latest_news/1646686014_463478.html
12 https://www.npr.org/2022/03/25/1088885299/russias-assault-on-kyiv-slows-as-it-shifts-focus-to-eastern-ukraines-donbas-regi?
msclkid=8b22cc7fba6a11ecac00492d4da8e1c3
13 https://www.reuters.com/world/europe/ukraine-sets-ceasefire-goal-new-russia-talks-breakthrough-looks-distant-2022-03-29/
14 https://www.zdnet.com/article/ukraine-takes-out-five-bot-farms-spreading-panic-among-citizens/
15 https://www.forbes.com/sites/thomasbrewster/2022/03/28/huge-cyberattack-on-ukrtelecom-biggest-since-russian-invasion-
crashes-ukraine-telecom/?sh=2174fe777dc2
WEEK 6 and beyond (Mar 31 - Apr 8): 
This period saw an escalation of attacks on energy 
infrastructure and targeted efforts to influence Ukrainians’ 
support for their government.  
•	
IRIDIUM and suspected Russian actors have been 
conducting intrusions into Ukrainian energy company 
networks since before the invasion started. During 
this period, IRIDIUM took the next steps to launch a 
destructive attack against the network of a regional 
energy provider.   
Meanwhile, DEV-0586 launched a cyber-enabled influence 
operation to try to turn Ukrainian citizens against their 
government.   
•	
DEV-0586 sent emails masquerading as a resident in 
besieged Mariupol that blamed the Ukrainian government 
for abandoning them and suggested resisting the 
government. There were no malicious links or attachments 
in the message further suggesting the intended objective 
was influence operations. This was the first instance we had 
observed such intense anti-government messaging in email.
This is a screenshot of the DEV-0586 email message to 
targeted Ukrainian citizens. A machine translation of the 
message says: 
“In the light of recent events, our government capital has 
finally spat on conscience and morality. . . If there is even a 
drop of Ukrainian patriotism in your soul, you are obliged 
not to allow our common dream to dissolve into lies and 
propaganda of these hypocritical clowns. I urge you to 
fulfill your national duty, to defend the right to be called 
the Ukrainian people and to put an end to this pack of 
invertebrates.”  
The messages were addressed to people by name 
(redaction above), raising the prospect that DEV-0586 
stole this personal information from at least one of their 
government victims.  
Page 15 of 21
Microsoft has consistently acted to notify organizations and 
enterprises that we observed being threatened or attacked 
as described in this report. As the war commenced, we used 
the secure communication channels we had established 
with Ukrainian government cybersecurity officials to provide 
real-time threat intelligence and guidance to assist Ukrainian 
organizations’ efforts to find and defeat cyberattacks. 
Leveraging RiskIQ’s outside-in approach to illuminating attack 
surfaces, we provided our liaisons with actionable information 
about Ukrainian government systems that remained 
unpatched against known vulnerabilities that would likely be 
targeted by attackers. Microsoft respects and acknowledges 
the tireless efforts of Ukrainian network defenders and the 
unwavering support provided by CERT UA to protect their 
networks and maintain service to their customers during this 
extraordinary and challenging time. 
With the consent and cooperation of the Ukrainian 
government, we have helped to proactively update systems 
with cyber countermeasures against the types of attacks we 
have observed. Specifically, we recommended that Ukrainian 
organizations enable controlled folder access,16 an existing 
Microsoft Defender feature that is disabled by default. This 
feature meaningfully mitigated some of the damage done by 
destructive wiper malware. We have continuously integrated 
intelligence gained by tracking threat activity into new product 
detections to block malicious use of certain tools against 
Ukraine-based infrastructure.  
We observed firsthand how customers running endpoint 
detection and response (EDR) solutions were able to respond 
to alerts and remediate intrusions before a destructive attack 
was launched. As Microsoft customers, our Ukrainian partners 
were using Microsoft Defender for Endpoint, but alternate EDR 
solutions could also provide much needed observability and 
detection capabilities.  
We have kept the US Government advised of relevant 
information and have established communications with NATO 
and EU cyber officials to communicate any evidence of threat 
actor activity spreading beyond Ukraine.
Microsoft assistance to defend Ukraine
Page 16 of 21
16 https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoft-365/security/defender-endpoint/controlled-folders
Implications of wartime operations for 
global cybersecurity
The dynamic nature of the armed conflict will introduce 
a level of uncertainty not seen since the annexation of 
Crimea in 2014.  As the war progresses, actors with a vested 
interest in the conflict will operate under increasingly 
urgent requirements to fill critical intelligence gaps and 
achieve specific tactical objectives. How cyber operators 
choose to meet these requirements may pose significant 
risk to the global cybersecurity landscape.
We assess that such an environment of urgency may 
incentivize the use of sensitive capabilities that will 
allow threat actors to gain assured access to networks or 
manipulate aspects of information systems to achieve 
strategic objectives. Highly reserved capabilities such as 
zero-days, critical infrastructure attacks, supply-chain 
attacks, and other novel techniques will almost-certainly 
be showcased in the medium-term.
As Microsoft and the greater security community increases 
outreach in Ukraine, the community will inevitably identify 
and mitigate previously unknown vulnerabilities and 
attack chains, forcing an already diverse ecosystem of 
well-resourced actors to reverse patches and carry out 
“N-day attacks” tailored to underlying vulnerabilities. This 
cat and mouse cycle almost guarantees that discovered 
capabilities will proliferate across multiple categories of 
threat actors, creating a long tail of incidents stemming 
from or modeled on the conflict in Ukraine. Organizations 
worldwide must acknowledge and prepare for the reality 
that such events will not occur in a vacuum and are 
unlikely to stay limited to a specific domain.
Outlook: Continued destructive attacks in Ukraine may increase in severity
As of this report’s drafting, Microsoft and cybersecurity 
firm ESET worked with Ukrainian authorities to identify and 
mitigate the impact of an IRIDIUM wiper attack against 
the industrial control system infrastructure of a Ukrainian 
energy company.17 The targeting of ICS was an escalation 
beyond what we had observed up to early April in that it was 
intended to produce physical effects on critical infrastructure. 
On April 12, Russian President Vladimir Putin said that peace 
talks with Ukraine were dead and that his “military operation” 
would continue until objectives were achieved,18 setting 
expectations for protracted military engagement.
Given cyber operators’ demonstrated conduct of actions 
that mirror and augment military actions and the gradual 
expansion of targets of destructive attacks, cyberattacks will 
probably continue to escalate as conflict rages. In addition 
to the energy sector, the communications sector in Ukraine 
may suffer future destructive attacks, based on several known 
and suspected actors’ continued pursuit of compromises in 
that sector. Microsoft observed IRIDIUM, STRONTIUM, and 
unknown but suspected Russian nation state threat actors 
pursue compromises or expand on existing access in the 
communications sector in April, targeting IT infrastructure 
that supports the sector and a major ISP.  
Page 17 of 21
17 https://www.welivesecurity.com/2022/04/12/industroyer2-industroyer-reloaded/
18 https://www.wsj.com/livecoverage/russia-ukraine-latest-news-2022-04-12/card/putin-says-peace-talks-have-reached-
dead-end-vows-war-will-go-on-pstQwRdkQV1WiLl9kwAH
As the conflict persists and countries provide more military 
assistance to Ukraine or take more punitive measures against 
the Russian government, Russian nation state threat actors 
may be tasked to expand their destructive actions in retaliation 
against targets outside of Ukraine in retaliation. Russia-
aligned actors active in Ukraine are also showing interest in 
or conducting operations against organizations in the Baltics 
and Turkey, all member states on NATO’s eastern flank that 
are actively providing political, humanitarian, or military 
support Ukraine. In addition to typical intelligence-gathering 
operations, this activity may represent pre-positioning for 
future destructive attacks if tasked.
Microsoft has notified these customers of the malicious activity 
and provided information that may aid in identifying and 
mitigating the threat on their networks. While much of what 
Microsoft has observed to date suggests threat actors DEV-
0586 and IRIDIUM are operating with restraint in the execution 
of destructive attacks by limiting malware deployments to 
specific target networks. However, Russia-aligned nation state 
actors are actively pursuing initial access to government and 
critical infrastructure organizations worldwide suggesting 
possible future targeting.  
Microsoft encourages all organizations that are directly or 
indirectly associated with the conflict in Ukraine to proactively 
protect themselves from the threats described in this report 
and actively monitor for similar actions in their environment. 
Any organization that may be faced with defending their 
systems in future conflicts can follow the same general 
guidance to improve their defense against malicious cyber 
activity during conflicts.  
Microsoft has observed throughout our engagement that 
Russia-aligned cyber operations use several common tactics, 
techniques, and procedures to execute their intrusions. We 
have been able to turn these observations into actionable 
guidance for network defenders and security teams. Some of 
the most common intrusion techniques include: 
•	
Exploitation of public facing applications or 
spear-phishing with attachments/links for initial access. 
•	
Credential theft and use of valid accounts throughout the 
attack lifecycle, making “identities” a key intrusion vector. 
This includes within Active Directory Domain and through 
VPNs or other remote access solutions. 
•	
Use of valid administration protocols, tools, and methods 
for lateral movement, relying on compromised identities 
with administrative capability. 
•	
Use of known publicly available offensive capabilities, 
sometimes obfuscated using actor specific methods to 
defeat static signatures. 
•	
“Living off the land” during system and network discovery, 
often utilizing native utilities or commands that are 
non-standard for the environments.  
•	
Use of destructive capabilities that access raw file systems 
for overwrites or deletions.
Outlook: Expansion of cyberattacks outside of Ukraine 
Recommendations
Page 18 of 21
Based upon these observations, we recommend taking the 
following actions:  
Minimize credential theft and account abuse: 
Protecting the identities of your users is a key requirement to 
secure your network and resources from attackers. Microsoft 
recommends enabling multi-factor authentication and 
identity detection tools. Additionally, customers are urged to 
apply least privilege access and secure the most sensitive and 
privileged accounts and systems. 
Secure internet-facing systems and remote 
access solutions: 
Internet facing systems should be secured against external 
attacks by ensuring they are updated to the most secure levels, 
regularly evaluated for vulnerability, and audited for changes 
to the integrity of the system. Anti-malware solutions and 
endpoint protection should be enabled for detection and 
prevention of attackers. Legacy systems should be isolated 
to prevent them from being an entry point for persistent 
threat actors. Remote access solutions should require 
two-factor authentication and be patched to the most 
secure configuration.  
Leverage anti-malware, endpoint detection, and 
identity protection solutions:
A combination of defense-in-depth security solutions, 
paired with trained and capable personnel, can empower 
your organization to identify, detect, and prevent intrusions 
impacting your business. Enabling cloud-protections19 allows 
identification and mitigation of known and novel threats to 
your network at scale. 
Enable investigations and recovery: 
In the case you detect or are notified of a threat to your 
environment, it is critical to have auditing of key resources 
to enable investigations. Customers are urged to have and 
exercise an incident response plan to prevent any delays or 
decrease dwell time for destructive threat actors. Customers 
are urged to have a backup strategy that accounts for the risk 
of destructive actions and prepare to exercise recovery plans.  
Defend against destructive attacks: 
Destructive attacks observed in Ukraine have similar 
characteristics and mitigations to Ransomware scenarios that 
Microsoft has identified worldwide in recent years. We have 
comprehensive guidance to help safeguard your organization 
against destructive attacks by leveraging features within 
Defender such as Attack Surface Reduction (ASR) 
and Controlled Folder Access (CFA). These features have 
been successful in defeating destructive attacks in Ukraine 
and elsewhere.20  
Review and implement “best practices” for defense 
in depth: 
We have developed extensive resources and best practices for 
customers of Microsoft solutions that provide clear actionable 
guidance for security-related decisions. These are designed to 
help improve your security posture and reduce risk whether 
your environment is cloud-only, or a hybrid enterprise 
spanning cloud(s) and on-premises data centers. Microsoft’s 
Security Best Practices covers topics such as governance, 
risk, compliance, security operations, identity and access 
management, network security and containment, information 
protection and storage, applications, and services.21
Page 19 of 21
19 https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoft-365/security/defender-endpoint/enable-cloud-protection-microsoft-
defender-antivirus?view=o365-worldwide
20 https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/security/compass/human-operated-ransomware
21 All the materials, including videos and downloadable presentations, can be found here: 
https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/security/compass/compass
This report is prepared by Microsoft’s Digital Security Unit, 
leveraging the intelligence and findings of the Microsoft Threat 
Intelligence Center and data analysis of Microsoft’s AI for Good 
Research Lab. Together with security teams across Microsoft, 
we continue our work to protect customers in Ukraine and 
share insights and protection recommendations with the 
world.
Contributors
Page 20 of 21
©2022 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved. This document is provided “as-is.” Information and views expressed in this document, 
including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. This document does not 
provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product.
Page 21 of 21
Digital Security Unit
