ICS CYBERSECURITY
YEAR IN REVIEW 2020
Contents
Introduction..............................................................................................................3
Key Highlights......................................................................................................... 4
In The Headlines.......................................................................................................5
Section One: ICS Threat Landscape........................................................................ 8
Key Updates on Existing Activity Groups.............................................................................. 10
2020’s New Activity Groups........................................................................................................11
STIBNITE..................................................................................................................................... 12
TALONITE................................................................................................................................... 13
KAMACITE..................................................................................................................................14
VANADINITE.............................................................................................................................. 15
Most Common TTPs Across All Industries.............................................................................16
Section Two: ICS Vulnerabilities............................................................................ 17
2020 Vulnerability Details...........................................................................................................19
2020 Vulnerability Severity......................................................................................................... 21
Actionable Guidance Missing in Most 2020 Advisories..................................................... 23
Severity Ratings of Vulnerabilities Remain Error-Prone.................................................... 25
Flaws in TCP/IP Stacks.................................................................................................................27
Vulnerabilities in VPN Appliances Facilitating Remote Work..........................................28
Section Three: Lessons Learned From the Front Lines........................................ 29
Visibility............................................................................................................................................ 31
Segmentation and Connections............................................................................................... 33
Cyber Readiness.............................................................................................................................37
Dragos Red Team......................................................................................................................... 39
Recommendations................................................................................................. 40
Increase OT Network Visibility................................................................................................. 40
Identify and Prioritize Crown Jewels........................................................................................41
Boost Incident Response Capabilities..................................................................................... 42
Validate Network Segmentation.............................................................................................. 43
Secure Credential Management...............................................................................................44
2
|  ICS CYBERSECURITY YEAR IN REVIEW 2020
INTRODUCTION
The Dragos Year in Review report is an annual analysis of 
Industrial Control System (ICS)/Operational Technology 
(OT) focused cyber threats, vulnerabilities, assessments, 
and incident response insights.1 The ICS/OT community has 
long suffered from a lack of public insights into these types 
of problem areas to have a meaningful discussion on how 
to address the issues. It is the Dragos team’s goal to share 
the observations and lessons learned with the industrial 
community for data-driven analysis and recommendations. 
In 2020, the industrial community performed amazing feats 
to keep civilization running under extremely challenging 
circumstances with the global pandemic. Infrastructure 
providers kept key services and goods available including 
electric power, manufactured goods, water, oil and gas, 
mining, chemical, rail, and transport while many faced 
hardships globally. As a result of these efforts, organizations 
shifted in how they conducted business to include an 
increasingly connected industrial environment. This is a 
trend that has existed for many years, even while many 
organizations still believed they had highly segmented or 
even air-gapped ICS networks. The risk to ICS is not born from 
an IT and OT convergence, but instead from a convergence 
of an increasingly ICS-aware and capable threat landscape 
with the digital transformation and hyperconnectivity of 
the industrial community. This report captures how some of 
the community is performing and progressing, and areas of 
improvement that will be needed to continue to provide safe 
and reliable operations.
1 The terms “ICS” and “OT” will be used interchangeably for the purpose of this report.
These terms are used differently in different communities.
3
|  ICS CYBERSECURITY YEAR IN REVIEW 2020
KEY HIGHLIGHTS
The abuse of valid 
accounts was the 
number one 
technique used
by named threats.
90% of service 
engagements included 
a finding around lack 
of visibility across OT 
networks.
88% of service 
engagements
included a finding
about improper
network segmentation.
54% of service 
engagements included 
a finding about shared 
credentials in OT 
systems.
SERVICE ENGAGEMENT
FINDINGS
61% of advisories 
that had a patch did 
not have any alternate 
mitigation advice 
provided by the vendor 
except for applying the 
patch, which in many 
industrial organizations 
can be difficult or 
significantly delayed.
64% of advisories 
that had no patch 
also had no practical 
mitigation advice 
provided by the vendor.
43% of ICS 
vulnerability 
advisories contained 
errors that would make 
it difficult to prioritize 
mitigations.
VULNERABILITY ADVISORY 
FINDINGS
Four new threat groups 
with the assessed 
motivation of targeting 
ICS/OT were discovered, 
accounting for a 36% 
increase in known 
groups.
4
|  ICS CYBERSECURITY YEAR IN REVIEW 2020
IN THE HEADLINES
EKANS represents a specific threat to ICS because of its incorporation of potential process 
and operational disruption features. This ransomware is capable of stopping ICS-related 
Windows processes before initiating encryption. EKANS activity could produce an unstable 
or physically disruptive situation by abruptly ending an operationally significant process. 
The Dragos Intelligence team assesses EKANS is related to a previous strain of ransomware 
called MEGACORTEX. Throughout 2020, Dragos identified new EKANS activity targeting 
multiple verticals including electric, oil and gas, medical, pharmaceutical manufacturing, and 
automotive. Public targets included Fresenius Kabi, a pharmaceutical division of the European 
company Fresenius Group; global manufacturer Honda; and Italian energy company Enel.
EKANS
MITRE ATT&CK for ICS 
Ripple20, AMNESIA:33
MITRE introduced ATT&CK 
for ICS in 2020 to codify and 
communicate the unique threat 
behaviors, or Tactics, Techniques, 
and Procedures (TTPs), that 
ICS adversaries use against OT 
targets. This independent and 
community-sourced framework 
provides a common lexicon 
for categorizing ICS-specific 
TTPs to support reporting and 
further analysis. Dragos uses 
the framework internally and 
continues to contribute to this 
program and community resource. 
The Year in Review report 
leverages information from MITRE 
ATT&CK about observed activity 
in ICS environments to help 
defenders mitigate threats to their 
organizations.
Third-party code integration can pose risks to 
industrial operations. Many vendors do not track 
third-party code libraries, and therefore cannot 
accurately inform customers if their products 
are impacted. Vendors are beholden to software 
manufacturers to release fixes for vulnerabilities 
that may impact thousands of products. For 
example, security researchers disclosed multiple 
vulnerabilities in TCP/IP software libraries called 
Ripple202 and AMNESIA:333 that potentially 
impacted many ICS vendors. Example ICS devices 
impacted include Programmable Logic Controllers 
(PLCs), Serial to Ethernet Converters, Protocol 
Converters, Remote Terminal Units (RTUs), digital 
protective relays, and some managed network 
switches and routers. Most of the devices impacted 
by the vulnerabilities were not accurately identified 
and did not have advisories released due to the 
difficulty in understanding third-party code 
adoption. Security design flaws in the impacted 
devices may make this collection of flaws 
less relevant to adversaries, but the disclosure 
highlights supply chain risks and complexity.
2 https://www.jsof-tech.com/disclosures/ripple20/;
3 https://www.forescout.com/research-labs/amnesia33/
5
|  ICS CYBERSECURITY YEAR IN REVIEW 2020
Multiple ICS entities were impacted by a 
massive supply chain compromise first 
revealed in December 2020.4  Adversaries 
compromised SolarWinds Orion business 
software to distribute malware. The 
adversary had unfettered access for more 
than 14 months and is thought to now 
have access to other supply chain access 
points throughout the community.
Identifying SolarWinds in ICS 
environments was challenging. To 
respond appropriately, facilities required 
accurate asset lists, software version 
information, and network monitoring 
to identity post-exploitation activity. 
Dragos investigated numerous confirmed 
compromises. The investigations reverted 
to limited host-based analysis and could 
only capture days or weeks in analysis. In 
an ICS network where not all endpoints 
can have robust host logging and in 
compromises where adversaries leverage 
the network extensively, it is preferred to 
have network traffic analysis and logging. 
Given the current lack of visibility in 
industrial networks the assessment of 
SolarWinds’ compromise impact is likely 
to not be fully understood for years.  
In some cases plant personnel purchased 
SolarWinds directly, and organizations were 
unaware they had it in their environments. 
More commonly though, many integrators, 
support contracts, and ICS suppliers 
use software, including SolarWinds, as 
white-labeled solutions. This means the 
product is in place but under a different 
name. Suppliers may use the software 
themselves on behalf of the client where the 
compromised SolarWinds software was not 
in the end-users ICS network. The software 
may have been present in the supplier or 
integrator’s network and used in the end-
user’s networks across direct connections 
or maintenance links. SolarWinds often 
has access directly to the control level 
in ICS networks which would allow an 
adversary to not only have access to these 
environments, but direct control of them. 
Many organizations that did not believe they 
were impacted were compromised directly 
or accessed from compromised networks 
due to third-parties.
Dragos is aware of at least two global 
ICS Original Equipment Manufacturers 
(OEMs) that were using the compromised 
SolarWinds software across maintenance 
links into ICS networks, including where 
there was turbine control software.5 
IN THE HEADLINES
4 https://www.dragos.com/blog/industry-news/responding-to-solarwinds-compromise-in-industrial-environments/;
 5 Dragos attempted to inform both OEMs and eventually leveraged government organizations to ensure that the risk was understood.
GLOBAL SUPPLY CHAIN 
COMPROMISE
6
|  ICS CYBERSECURITY YEAR IN REVIEW 2020
IN THE HEADLINES
Prior to 2020, OT-targeting adversaries exploited remote services to 
compromise ICS environments. This technique gained popularity 
as the COVID-19 pandemic spread globally. Companies began 
requiring some workers to remain at home in 2020, even those 
working in industrial environments. Multiple ICS-targeting threat 
groups historically targeted remote access technologies or logon 
infrastructure including PARISITE, MAGNALLIUM, ALLANITE, and 
XENOTIME. This includes compromise of Remote Desktop Protocol 
(RDP) and Virtual Private Network (VPN) assets. VPN equipment 
is a common access point for OEMs and integrators to gain access 
to operations environments. Although many organizations focus 
on prevention and segmentation, obtaining access through a 
compromised VPN may allow an adversary into an ICS network 
with limited detection capabilities. For example, in 2019 the Dragos 
team reported on the threat group PARISITE noting it was the 
access operations team for the MAGNALLIUM group and explicitly 
targeted OT boundary equipment, such as VPNs, for the likely 
purpose of gaining access to ICS networks. 
Remote Access Risks Continue 
in ICS Environments  
7
|  ICS CYBERSECURITY YEAR IN REVIEW 2020
SECTION ONE
ICS Threat
Landscape
INTRODUCTION
Cyber risk to industrial sectors has grown and accelerated dramatically, led by ransomware 
impacting industrial processes, intrusions enabling information gathering and process 
information theft, and new activity from adversaries targeting ICS. Dragos emphasizes 
the importance of understanding how adversaries steal information and gain access 
to better prepare for adversary behavior in the future. Adversaries often build programs 
and campaigns slowly over time, with later campaigns often being more successful and 
disruptive due to previous efforts. 
Some threats tracked by Dragos may proliferate into disruptive and destructive capabilities 
later, though no such activity is observed at this time. For example, the team would track 
a threat that was explicitly targeting electric companies with theming toward engineers, 
engineering projects, or electric operations, though there may be limited or no visibility to 
confirm if the adversary gained access to ICS networks. The team would not track a threat if 
it was simply trying to gain access to an electric company. The fundamental assessment of 
threats tracked by Dragos is that they are explicitly trying to gain access to ICS networks and 
operations or are successful in achieving access. 
These types of events, where adversaries gain access to ICS networks but do not have the 
intention of currently disrupting them, are much more common than is publicly reported. 
The threats are learning ICS. Although not every compromise will relate to an impact today, 
many may inform the attacks of the future. Dragos tracks 15 threat Activity Groups, or threat 
groups,6  with four of the groups discovered in 2020. Threats are growing at a rate three 
times faster than they are going dormant.7 This is likely due to the increased investment 
made by adversaries in targeting ICS over the last five to 10 years, and whose investment 
will continue to accelerate the ICS threat environment.
MAJOR ICS THREAT TRENDS IN 2020
•	 ICS THREAT ACTIVITY GROUPS INCREASE 
SIGNIFICANTLY
•	 PHISHING CONTINUES TO ENABLE ICS 
INTRUSIONS
•	 REMOTE ACCESS DIRECTLY TO ICS 
LEVERAGED OFTEN BY THREATS
•	 THE BEGINNING OF RANSOMWARE 
SPECIFICALLY TARGETING ICS
•	 SUPPLY CHAIN CONCERNS AMPLIFIED 
BY LIMITED VISIBILITY IN ICS
6 Organizations track threats in unique ways. At Dragos, analysts utilize the 
Diamond Model for Intrusion Analysis, which is a common and industry 
accepted methodology to cluster intrusions into groups representing teams of 
adversaries that operate in similar ways. The Diamond Model is an open and 
well-documented framework that allows for transparency in how this analysis 
is conducted. https://www.activeresponse.org/wp-content/uploads/2013/07/
diamond.pdf
7 Every year feels like the headlines are, “Threats are Getting Worse,” or “Risk 
is Increasing.” A useful way to track the evolution of the threat landscape is to 
determine how many new threat groups are identified compared to how many 
are going dormant. Groups that are not observed performing new intrusions 
within a 12-month period are moved to a dormant phase. Typically the growth 
rate would be less than two groups being created for every group that goes 
dormant.
9
|  ICS CYBERSECURITY YEAR IN REVIEW 2020
Key Updates on
Existing Activity Groups
Throughout 2020, the 11 Activity Groups 
identified prior to 2020 remained active 
against industrial organizations. While 
already covered in previous Year in Review 
reports, the following key activities occurred 
in 2020 that are worth noting:
In March, PARISITE leveraged Citrix vulnerability CVE-2019-19781 in intrusions 
targeting North American electric and oil and gas entities. This was concerning 
given that PARISITE conducts initial access operations potentially enabling future 
disruptive operations associated with MAGNALLIUM. This exemplifies the critical 
need to track any groups interested in ICS through IT networks. In one example, 
Dragos responded to an incident where PARISITE was identified internal to the 
organization before MAGNALLIUM could act. Intelligence-informed decisions can and 
have helped organizations prioritize efforts successfully.
In April, new DTrack malware emerged with the ability to communicate with Fujitsu 
Systemwalker management software utilized in distributed computing and data 
center management operations. Dragos associated this activity with the energy-
targeting group WASSONITE. Interaction with this type of software can significantly 
impact data center and computational environments resulting in potential ICS or 
broader operational impacts. 
ALLANITE and DYMALLOY remain critical threats to infrastructure operations, 
especially in Europe and North America. In May, Dragos observed ALLANITE 
conducting credential harvesting via watering hole attacks. This was followed by use 
of captured credentials and built-in system tools to launch intrusions into the German 
electric system, and potentially water and wastewater sectors. ALLANITE and 
DYMALLOY continued to target multiple United States (U.S.) industrial entities from 
September through October 2020. Operations included use of ZeroLogon to further 
intrusions into victim networks. CHRYSENE showed continued activity with further 
malware development and used new tools to infiltrate ICS networks in the Middle 
East for intelligence gathering purposes.
10
|  ICS CYBERSECURITY YEAR IN REVIEW 2020
STIBNITE
TALONITE
KAMACITE
VANADINITE
2020’s New Activity Groups 
11
|  ICS CYBERSECURITY YEAR IN REVIEW 2020
STIBNITE specifically targets wind turbine companies 
that generate electric power in Azerbaijan. Based 
on current collection efforts, the activity appears 
confined exclusively to Azerbaijan. There is 
ongoing kinetic conflict in the region between 
Azerbaijan and Armenia due to rights to disputed 
territory. Historically when there is regional conflict 
between states, there tends to be targeting of critical 
infrastructure, including electric operations. There 
is only a loose correlation between the conflict and 
STIBNITE operations, and the Dragos team is not 
making an assessment on who may be responsible 
for the targeting.8 Given the specific targeting and 
the regional conflict, it is a situation and threat group 
worth watching closely.
STIBNITE’s victims share unique technology with 
wind farms in Ukraine. One possibility for the specific 
victim targeting is that adversaries targeted the 
supplier and maintainer for the wind farm itself. The 
supplier, operator, and maintainer are all based in 
Ukraine. 
STIBNITE used shared Command and Control (C2) 
infrastructure between multiple intrusions in late 
2020 and updated its malware capabilities to avoid 
detection after public reports on its activity were 
released. STIBNITE uses PoetRAT remote access 
malware in its intrusion operations to gather 
information, take screenshots, transfer files, and 
execute commands on victim systems. STIBNITE 
gains initial access via credential theft websites 
spoofing Azerbaijan government organizations and 
phishing campaigns using variants of malicious 
Microsoft Office documents. STIBNITE also used 
information related to the global COVID-19 pandemic 
for malicious document themes.
Target Geography
Azerbaijan
Malware
PoetRAT
Victimology
STIBNITE
STIBNITE TTPs
from MITRE ATT&CK
8 https://www.wsj.com/articles/armenia-azerbaijan-conflict-11601325097
INITIAL ACCESS
PERSISTENCE
LATERAL MOVEMENT
COMMAND & CONTROL
T0865
T0859
T0859
T0869
Spearphishing
Valid Accounts
Valid Accounts
Standard Application Layer Protocol
T0817
T1050
Drive-by Compromise
New Service
square ICS  square Enterprise
|  ICS CYBERSECURITY YEAR IN REVIEW 2020
12
TALONITE‘s operations focus on near exclusive 
interest in initial access compromises in the U.S. 
electric sector. The group uses phishing techniques 
to deliver either malicious documents or executables. 
TALONITE uses two custom malware families known 
as LookBack and FlowCloud for information gathering 
operations.9   
 
TALONITE’s phishing campaigns utilize electric 
and power grid engineering-specific themes and 
concepts, indicating an intent to gain a foothold 
within energy sector entities. Such access could 
facilitate gathering host and identity information, 
collecting sensitive operational data, or mapping the 
enterprise environment to identify points of contact 
with ICS. The identified infrastructure and phishing 
emails spoofed the National Council of Examiners for 
Engineering and Surveying (NCEES), North American 
Electric Reliability Corporation (NERC), the American 
Society of Civil Engineers (ASCE), and Global Energy 
Certification (GEC).
TALONITE employs malware using legitimate binaries 
maliciously, or modifies such binaries to include 
additional functionality. For example, LookBack 
malware contains persistence mechanisms that add 
two Windows registry keys to execute legitimate but 
modified files when the infected user next logs in. 
FlowCloud launches a renamed copy of the legitimate 
HTML Help Workshop (hhw.exe) utility from 
Microsoft. The group uses a combination of owned 
and compromised network infrastructure.
9 For more public information on these malware families reference Proofpoint’s reporting here:
https://www.proofpoint.com/us/threat-insight/post/lookback-malware-targets-united-states-utilities-sector-
phishing-attacks
TALONITE TTPs
from MITRE ATT&CK 
INITIAL ACCESS
EXECUTION
PERSISTENCE
DISCOVERY
LATERAL MOVEMENT
COMMAND & CONTROL
T0865
T1106
T1078
T1046
T1078
T1090
Spearphishing Attachment
Native API
Valid Accounts
Network Scanning Service
Valid Accounts
Screen Capture
Proxy
COLLECTION
T1113
T1005
Data from Local System
Target Geography
North
America
Infrastructure
Appears to be shared 
or reused through the 
overlapping LookBack and 
FlowCloud campaigns
Victimology
TALONITE
square ICS  square Enterprise
|  ICS CYBERSECURITY YEAR IN REVIEW 2020
13
In 2020, KAMACITE targeted U.S. energy companies by 
leveraging stolen credentials or brute force logons of 
remote services to access victim networks. Dragos tracks 
KAMACITE as a significant threat to industrial operations 
because of strong overlaps between KAMACITE and the 
Sandworm group, which enabled a disruptive cyberattack 
to electric operations in Ukraine. 
Sandworm is a group tracked by FireEye analysts covering 
a wide variety of ICS and non-ICS specific targeting. 
KAMACITE represents the specific, ICS-targeting access 
enablement component observed by Dragos. KAMACITE 
also represents a long-running set of related behaviors 
targeting critical infrastructure and industrial verticals. 
KAMACITE is a unique group due to new intrusions and 
evolution in tradecraft distinct from original Sandworm 
activity.10 
Dragos assesses KAMACITE is an access-enablement 
team that operates to support other teams conducting 
disruptive and destructive effects.11 Previously, Dragos 
identified ELECTRUM as the group responsible for the 
Ukraine 2016 electric transmission substation cyberattack. 
The important distinction is that in Dragos’s analysis, 
KAMACITE conducted the access operations, enabling 
ELECTRUM to create and use CRASHOVERRIDE malware 
to carry out the attack. Dragos determined this based on 
behavioral differentiations from ELECTRUM activity and 
earlier access operations demonstrating two distinct 
groups of activity. 
In 2020, KAMACITE was observed performing 
reconnaissance against numerous energy companies in 
the U.S. Following its reconnaissance, it attempted to take 
advantage of webmail of those companies and cloud-
based logon services including Microsoft Active Directory 
(AD) and Office 365 services. In addition to this activity, 
Dragos verified Server Message Block (SMB) (TCP 445) 
connections from KAMACITE infrastructure to victims 
that could indicate some successful access attempts. The 
precise nature of this connectivity is unknown.
Links
SANDWORM, 
ELECTRUM
10 It is common for the information security community to look at threat group names as names, when in reality they are 
definitions. Sandworm is tracked by FireEye. While links can be seen to others’ groups, the definition, collection efforts, 
and analysis of the FireEye analysts are distinct from those at Dragos and proprietary. Dragos decided to start tracking 
KAMACITE, associated with a link to Sandworm, upon new activity and unique collection emerging in 2020. 11 Dragos 
has unique visibility and tracks intrusions that are still active as of this past year. Dragos tracks KAMACITE separately 
from Sandworm activity. Dragos is not attempting to rename Sandworm, but is merely organizing the ICS activity 
explicitly to support the development of defenses against this group.
KAMACITE TTPs
from MITRE ATT&CK 
INITIAL ACCESS
EXECUTION
DISCOVERY
LATERAL MOVEMENT
PERSISTENCE
COMMAND & CONTROL
T1190
T0853
T0840
T1078
T1078
T0885
Exploit Public Facing Application
Scripting
Network Connection Enumeration
Valid Accounts
Valid Accounts
Commonly Used Ports
T0866
T0807
T0846
T0866
T0884
Exploitation of Remote Services
Command-Line Interface
Remote System Discovery
Exploitation of Remote Services
Connection Proxies
Target Geography
North
America
Europe
Major Incidents
BE2, BE3, 
CRASHOVERRIDE
Victimology
KAMACITE
square ICS  square Enterprise
|  ICS CYBERSECURITY YEAR IN REVIEW 2020
14
VANADINITE conducted various initial access 
operations targeting industrial entities across the 
energy, manufacturing, and transportation sectors 
in North America, Europe, Australia, and Asia. 
Dragos assesses this group’s activity is focused 
on information gathering operations, including 
specifically ICS compromise and data theft. Obtaining 
documents and intellectual property relating to ICS 
processes, function, and design could enable this 
group’s sponsor entity to develop ICS capabilities. 
VANADINITE’s activity supports long-term strategic 
advances rather than disruptive or destructive effects. 
Dragos assesses with low confidence VANADINITE is 
responsible for the ColdLock ransomware attack that 
targeted Taiwanese state-owned ICS companies and 
caused indirect disruption to operations. The objective 
of this attack — whether financial gain or disruptive 
messaging — is unclear. 
 
Dragos consistently observed a pattern in 
VANADINITE behavior, including the targeting of 
recently disclosed “n+1” vulnerabilities in a range 
of networking and gateway devices impacting 
remote access services like VPNs. Asset owners and 
operators should treat vulnerabilities in external-
facing network appliances as a serious issue. Dragos 
observed multiple entities, including PARISITE, 
increasingly adopt this methodology. These remote 
access technologies often directly enable access to 
ICS networks bypassing enterprise networks and are 
commonly used by integrators and ICS OEMs.
VANADINITE TTPs
from MITRE ATT&CK 
INITIAL ACCESS
EXECUTION
PERSISTENCE
LATERAL MOVEMENT
T1190
T1110
T1003
T1059
T1133
T1078
Exploit Public Facing Infrastructure
Command and Scripting Interpreter
External Remote Services
Valid Accounts
T1133
T1555
T1111
T1047
T1078
External Remote Services
Brute Force
Credentials from Password Stores
Two-Factor Authentication Interception
Operating System Credential Dumping
Windows Management Instrumentation
Valid Accounts
Links
Winnti, LEAD
Target Geography
North America, 
Europe, Asia, 
Australia
Victimology
VANADINITE
square ICS  square Enterprise
|  ICS CYBERSECURITY YEAR IN REVIEW 2020
15
Most Common TTPs
Across All Industries 
The following chart demonstrates how many of 
the 15 Activity Groups Dragos tracks leverage 
a specific MITRE ATT&CK for ICS TTP. As 
shown below, Valid Accounts usage is the most 
common TTP among the groups.
Top Activity Group 5 TTPs 
13
12
11
10
9
8
7
6
5
4
3
2
1
T0859
T0865
T0853
T0869
T0862
Valid Accounts
Spearphishing Attachment  
Scripting
Standard Application 
Layer Protocol
Supply Chain
Compromise
16
|  ICS CYBERSECURITY YEAR IN REVIEW 2020
SECTION TWO
ICS Vulnerabilities
INTRODUCTION
Dragos researchers analyzed 703 ICS/OT vulnerabilities 
in 2020. For each vulnerability, Dragos independently 
assesses and confirms – and often corrects – the 
advisories describing flaws in firmware or software.  
The vulnerabilities Dragos analyzes are identified by 
independent security researchers, the Department of 
Homeland Security’s ICS-Computer Emergency Readiness 
Team (CERT), vendors, and Dragos analysts. 
Dragos analyzed 29 percent more vulnerabilities in 
2020 than 2019, demonstrating a rise in publicly known 
flaws in systems supporting industrial operations. Of 
individually reviewed vulnerabilities, 33 percent contained 
errors in the Common Vulnerability Scoring System 
(CVSS) score, potentially impacting patching decisions 
made by asset owners and operators. Over one-third of 
vulnerabilities could cause a loss of view and control if 
exploited by an adversary. Public Proof of Concepts (POCs) 
were available for 30 vulnerabilities reviewed by Dragos, 
meaning available resources indicated specifically how an 
adversary could operationalize the flaw. 
18
|  ICS CYBERSECURITY YEAR IN REVIEW 2020
2020 Vulnerability Details
Twenty-three percent of 
vulnerabilities Dragos analyzed 
applied to products bordering 
the enterprise. This can include 
networking communication 
equipment, VPNs, data historians, or 
firewalls commonly deployed in ICS 
networks. This number is up from 
21 percent in 2019.  ICS-targeting 
adversaries, including VANADINITE 
and PARISITE, have historically 
leveraged such vulnerabilities for 
initial access to target environments 
and pose a risk to industrial operators. 
These vulnerabilities are of particular 
interest, as they can provide 
immediate access to the ICS networks 
bypassing enterprise security controls.
Most vulnerabilities resided deep within the 
ICS network, meaning they apply to equipment 
on Levels 0 to 3 of the Purdue Model.12 This 
includes engineering workstations, PLCs, 
sensors, and industrial controllers. These 
vulnerabilities require access to a control 
system network to exploit, offering some 
mitigation for organizations provided they 
implement proper network segmentation. 
With the increasing connectivity in 
organizations, this security control is 
diminishing in value and should be enhanced 
with efforts such as network monitoring, and 
where possible, Multi-Factor Authentication 
(MFA) for remote sessions.
2019
2020
21%
23%
Advisories Applied to Products 
Bordering the Enterprise
Vulnerabilities Deep Within
ICS Networks
2019
2020
77%
77%
12 https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Purdue_Enterprise_Reference_Architecture
19
|  ICS CYBERSECURITY YEAR IN REVIEW 2020
The percentage of disclosed flaws that 
could be used to cause a loss of view and 
loss of control in ICS systems decreased 
significantly from 50 percent in 2019 to 
36 percent in 2020. This decrease is likely 
attributed to the increase in identified 
vulnerabilities bordering the enterprise that 
do not have direct operational impacts.
5%
2%
50%
43%
1%
1%
36%
62%
Loss of Control Only
Loss of View Only
Both Loss of View
and Loss of Control
Neither Loss of View
nor Loss of Control
Impact of Disclosed Flaws
square  2019 
square  2020
20
|  ICS CYBERSECURITY YEAR IN REVIEW 2020
2020 Vulnerability Severity
In addition to validating the 
CVSS, Dragos categorizes 
vulnerabilities based on severity. 
The following taxonomy is used: 
Immediate Action
A far-reaching threat or vulnerability calling for action broadly 
across at least one industry.
Limited Threat
A limited threat, risk, or vulnerability requiring an applicability 
assessment before taking action.
Possible Threat
Threat scenarios, research, and vulnerabilities relating to 
operations but not requiring direct/immediate action.
No Action Required
Items of interest but likely requiring no action except in unique 
threat models.
Hype
A story or vulnerability receiving coverage but not yet worth the 
attention of operators.
21
|  ICS CYBERSECURITY YEAR IN REVIEW 2020
In examining individual vulnerabilities, Dragos also categorizes them based on the 
“Now, Next, Never” system, a malleable framework developed by CERT/Coordination 
Center (CC) to help asset owners and operators identify vulnerabilities and prioritize 
patching. The framework is not a one-size-fits-all solution for patch management. 
When combined with consequence-driven threat modeling, it can help OT security 
practitioners determine when and if to fix flaws in industrial control equipment. 
The “Now” flaws require immediate action. 
These flaws include critical vulnerabilities such 
as perimeter-facing and network exploitable 
vulnerabilities, and other vulnerabilities that should 
be addressed as soon as practicable.
Limited Threat vulnerabilities fall into the “Next” 
category. These might be network exploitable but are 
present deeper in the network and require more work, 
access, and knowledge for an adversary to exploit 
or impact OT processes. If an operations network 
does not have proper segmentation or is accessible 
from the internet, asset owners and operators should 
consider the “Next” vulnerabilities a greater risk. In 
most cases, these vulnerabilities can be mitigated 
simply by updating firewall rules. It is important that 
customers conduct a firewall rule audit on a regular 
basis and justify every allow rule. In 2020, close to 
two-thirds of vulnerabilities assessed by Dragos were 
considered “Next,” a Limited Threat.
Low vulnerabilities pose a possible threat but rarely 
require action in vulnerability prioritization. They 
can be  considered “Never” vulnerabilities. It is 
more beneficial for an organization to monitor its 
environment for signs of exploitation rather than 
to take devices and services offline to patch, or 
take appropriate mitigation measures. Although 
considered “Never” vulnerabilities, Dragos analysts 
do not recommend ignoring them entirely if time 
and resources permit. The reality is patching in 
ICS is more difficult than in most enterprise IT 
networks, and the value presented from patching 
these vulnerabilities is minimal. Asset owners 
and operators should conduct risk assessments to 
determine if it is safe to continue operations without 
addressing the identified vulnerabilities. 
2019
2020
35%
58%
7%
30%
63%
7%
square Now – Immediate Action
square Next – Limited Threat
square Never – Possible Threat/No Action
22
|  ICS CYBERSECURITY YEAR IN REVIEW 2020
OF THOSE
Advisories that
had no Alternate
Mitigation
55%
Actionable Guidance Missing
in Most 2020 Advisories
An increase in the reported number of ICS vulnerabilities overall coincided with an 
increase in vendors providing patches alongside publicly disclosed flaws. Twenty-
two percent of advisories did not have a patch when announced, down from 26 
percent year-over-year. Of those, more than two-thirds did not contain practical 
mitigation advice. 
Frequently, vendors will not provide advice to asset owners and operators if they 
are unable to patch the identified vulnerability. Dragos identified 61 percent of 
advisories contained a patch to fix the vulnerability, but no alternative mitigation if 
patching was not an option.
26+74+B
22+78+B
Advisories with
no Patch when
Announced
26%
Advisories with
no Patch when
Announced
22%
OF THOSE
Advisories that
had no Practical
Mitigation Advice
76%
OF THOSE
Advisories that
had no Practical
Mitigation Advice
64%
74%
had a patch
78%
had a patch
2019
2020
OF THOSE
Advisories that
had no Alternate
Mitigation
61%
23
|  ICS CYBERSECURITY YEAR IN REVIEW 2020
Dragos provides customers with 
insight into managing risks about 
disclosed ICS vulnerabilities beyond 
what is included in advisories by 
the vendor. In 2020, Dragos provided 
additional mitigation advice for
78 percent of advisories that did
not provide this information. 
80%
70%
60%
50%
40%
30%
20%
10%
77%
2019
78%
2020
Mitigation Advice: Advisories Without Mitigation Advice
for which Dragos Provided a Mitigation
24
|  ICS CYBERSECURITY YEAR IN REVIEW 2020
Severity Ratings of
Vulnerabilities Remain
Error-Prone
In addition to a lack of actionable information from most ICS-related vulnerability 
advisories in 2020, many advisories and individual vulnerabilities contained errors 
that could inadvertently mislead practitioners who use CVSS scores to triage for 
mitigation or patching.
The Dragos assessment of 2020 ICS-related vulnerabilities shows that among 
advisories and vulnerabilities containing errors, most of them understated severity 
levels. Seventy-three percent of corrected advisories were more severe in the 
context of an operational environment than the public advisory indicated. 
By Advisory
Advisories with
Incorrect Data
By CVE
(Error Rate)
Individual CVEs
Contained Errors
33%
2020
19%
2019
43%
2020
30%
2019
25
|  ICS CYBERSECURITY YEAR IN REVIEW 2020
By CVE73+1+26+M
By Advisory (Error Rate) — Rate was consistent from 2019 to 2020
Dragos Found to be 
MORE Severe than 
Public Advisory
73%
Dragos Found to be 
LESS Severe than
Public Advisory
26% 
1%
Identical Score
but Different
Exploitation Vector
CVE where Corrected Severity Score was
HIGHER than Reported
CVE where Corrected
Severity Score was
LOWER than Reported
24%
9%
26
|  ICS CYBERSECURITY YEAR IN REVIEW 2020
Flaws in TCP/IP Stacks
Researchers identified several third-party vulnerabilities in the software 
supply chain that impacted ICS systems. Most notable were Ripple20 
and Amnesia:33, commercial names for vulnerabilities in third-party 
Internet Protocol (IP) stacks. These third-party stacks are used in many 
embedded products, including some used in industrial products and 
industrial-supporting Information Technology (IT) systems. Example ICS 
devices impacted include PLCs, Serial to Ethernet Converters, Protocol 
Converters, Remote Terminal Units (RTUs), digital protective relays, and 
some managed network switches and routers.
Mass exploitation of these vulnerabilities, like the similar URGENT/11 
vulnerabilities reported in 2019, is rare. No organizations have provided 
evidence of public exploitation.
Devices that use third-party protocol stacks are often deeply embedded 
systems. Exploitation requires understanding the Central Processing 
Unit (CPU) architecture, memory layout, and hardware connections 
of the vulnerable device. Developing a working exploit requires a deep 
understanding of embedded systems. Once an exploit is developed, it 
may not even function on the same product if, for example, the product 
undergoes a hardware revision.
Fundamentally, these vulnerabilities are not a high risk for the industrial 
sector. In the industrial space, embedded systems are still most often 
“insecure by design,” or lacking some security protections. An example of 
this is the APC Uninterruptible Power Supply (UPS) susceptibility to the 
Ripple20 vulnerabilities. The researchers of the vulnerabilities developed 
a working exploit for CVE-2020-11901 against the UPS, which could result 
in shutting off the UPS. However, the UPS speaks an industrial protocol 
called BACnet that lacks basic security protections. According to the 
device instruction manual, and verified by Dragos, a BACnet control 
point can be used to achieve the same effect using freely available tools. 
27
|  ICS CYBERSECURITY YEAR IN REVIEW 2020
Vulnerabilities
in VPN
Appliances
Facilitating
Remote Work
Several VPN appliance vulnerabilities were disclosed and fixed in 2020. These include 
issues in non-industrial appliances that Dragos tracks and models that are specifically 
marketed toward industrial customers. In 2020, Dragos tracked 13 advisories that 
include VPN software and hardware commonly used in industrial environments and 
gateways with optional VPN features. Impacted devices include Palo Alto Networks 
Global Protect VPN client, Citrix Application Delivery Controller and Netscaler, and ICS-
specific VPN services Ewon, Cosy, and Flexy.
Enterprise VPN appliances are often used by industrial operators to provide remote 
access to corporate and operations networks. Some OEMs provide VPN access 
specifically for their ICS equipment, restricting connections or lateral movement to the 
rest of the OT network. Many of these products are identified as belonging to utilities 
via the popular search engine Shodan. Vulnerabilities in these products should be 
remediated quickly. 
End users should determine the exposure of VPN appliances. Industrial-specific VPN 
appliances may provide direct access to process control systems. These devices are best 
secured by using them in “client” mode where they may connect to a central server. The 
central server may be hardened to prevent site-to-site communications between field 
sites, and to monitor for suspicious behavior originating from field sites.
28
|  ICS CYBERSECURITY YEAR IN REVIEW 2020
SECTION THREE
Lessons Learned
From The
Front
Lines
INTRODUCTION
For the last two decades, the prevailing strategies for safeguarding 
ICS were focused on protecting the perimeter, preventative security 
countermeasures, and internal segmentation. In that time, standards, 
regulations, and best practices codified these methods. Other 
focuses, such as detection, response, and recovery were included 
but without equal emphasis or examples. The disparity has left 
industrial organizations underdeveloped in these core capabilities in 
an understandable, yet undesirable, situation. In general, the industry 
lacks visibility into their ICS assets and activities, hampering the overall 
cyber readiness and ability to understand and manage cyber risk. 
These themes are confirmed based upon analysis of Dragos service 
engagements in 2020. 
The data set includes engagements from many industrial infrastructure 
sectors including electric, oil and gas, food and agriculture, 
manufacturing, chemical, transportation, water and wastewater, 
technology (data center building automation equipment), and mining.  
THE FOLLOWING DATA IS BASED ON A 
GROWING SET OF ANNUAL ENGAGEMENTS 
CONDUCTED BY THE DRAGOS TEAM OF 
ICS CYBERSECURITY EXPERTS ON SEVERAL 
SERVICE TYPES, INCLUDING:
•	 ARCHITECTURAL REVIEWS
•	 VULNERABILITY ASSESSMENTS
•	 PENETRATION TESTS
•	 TABLE TOP EXERCISES 
•	 INCIDENT RESPONSE (IR) 
30
|  ICS CYBERSECURITY YEAR IN REVIEW 2020
100%
90%
80%
70%
60%
50%
40%
30%
20%
10%
81%
2019
90%
2020
Over the course of the year, Dragos found 
that 90 percent of its services customers 
had limited to no visibility into their 
ICS environments. While most clients 
demonstrated a focus on an enhanced asset 
inventory, this effort is only the foundation 
for asset visibility. Many customers only 
monitored the IT to OT boundary without 
monitoring activity inside the ICS network. 
Network analysts were blind to critical 
network traffic. Some collected logs, 
but few utilized centralized logging to 
correlate various segments with network 
traffic analysis. These steps are critical for 
developing a full picture of what occurred 
across industrial assets and sites. 
Extremely Limited / No Visibility into OT Environment
Visibility
31
|  ICS CYBERSECURITY YEAR IN REVIEW 2020
2019
2020
Compared to the Dragos 2019 Year in Review report, 90 percent represents 
a small increase in this statistic. Note that this is not indicative of the same 
customers failing to improve year-over-year. Lack of visibility, a common finding 
in architecture reviews, is skewed heavily towards new customers. Architecture 
reviews conducted with repeat customers are typically not for the same facility 
either. While not a perfect comparison, the statistic indicates the state of 
cybersecurity for those customers early in their OT cyber maturity.  
Dragos’s incident response cases for 2020 provide further support for this lack 
of visibility because none of them were augmented with any centralized or 
automated host and network traffic logging. This significantly slows down the 
incident response process, and in multiple cases, means that the asset owner or 
operator is not able to get critical questions answered. In at least one case, the 
impact led to public reporting without an understanding of root cause analysis 
where cyber activity was heavily suspected, but no evidence was available. 
IR Cases Facilitated by Automated Logging or Visibility into ICS Network 
32
|  ICS CYBERSECURITY YEAR IN REVIEW 2020
Segmentation
and Connections 
Although asset owners and operators 
follow many of the best practices and 
their applicable regulation, Dragos 
continues to observe instances of poor 
segmentation with unexpected or 
unknown connections from the ICS 
network. About 88 percent of Dragos 
services engagements involved significant 
issues with network segmentation. 
Examples of observations contributing 
to this statistic include flat networks, 
where the only segmentation is the initial 
firewall between the IT-OT boundary, and 
unnecessary communication pathways 
to critical assets within the network. To 
further illustrate the incidence of poor 
segmentation, consider that adversaries 
accessed ICS networks directly from the 
internet in 100 percent of Dragos’s 2020 
incident response cases. These findings 
are directly related to the previous statistic 
of 90 percent of organizations that lacked 
OT visibility. Identifying architecture 
bypasses and rogue connections and 
devices is nearly impossible without 
visibility through network monitoring.
Engagements Exhibiting
Poor Security Perimeters
71+29+M
88+12+M
71%
2019
2020
88%
33
|  ICS CYBERSECURITY YEAR IN REVIEW 2020
While the annual comparison shows a 17-point increase in engagements 
exhibiting poor security perimeters, Dragos does not believe the industry 
is regressing on this security principle. Dragos attributes the growth to a 
rise in the number of engagements conducted. However, this statistic does 
support the assertion that cyber strategies focused on segmentation and 
prevention are not sufficient. 
Adversary usage of shared credentials exacerbates the severity of poor 
security perimeters.  Just over half of service engagements found shared 
credentials between IT and OT networks. For example, an organization 
may leverage the same credential management on the IT network as it 
does on the Demilitarized Zone (DMZ) and ICS network. This is another 
configuration that leads to a weakening of perimeters and may enable 
an adversary to easily traverse to ICS assets using credentials obtained 
from IT accounts.  For example, 100 percent of incident response cases 
that confirmed adversary activity involved the adversary leveraging 
shared credentials for lateral movement. During one case, Dragos analysts 
responded to an Activity Group that harvested credentials from an IT 
asset, and then leveraged a vulnerability in a VPN appliance to gain initial 
access to the ICS environment. In this case, the adversary also used the 
compromised credentials to move laterally in the ICS network and access 
the critical assets. 
Organizations
that Lacked
Separate IT
and OT User
Management
54%
2020
54%
2019
34
|  ICS CYBERSECURITY YEAR IN REVIEW 2020
A recurring theme from the previous Year in Review reports is the 
disconnect between expectations and reality about air-gapped 
systems. There was significant improvement in 2020 in this 
area, with a two-thirds drop in the discovery of external routable 
network connections to air-gapped ICS environments. During 
one engagement, a client who believed their network to be air-
gapped had two external connections bypassing their architecture 
and terminating deep within their gas transmission systems.  
The purpose of the connections was to monitor gas quality and 
heating values, and ensure exported product met demand and 
quality specifications. Problematically, communications took place 
directly between critical controllers used for the industrial process 
and PLCs used only for data exchange with the remote connection. 
This connection could have been leveraged by an adversary to 
gain initial access to the network and move laterally across Level 
1 systems within the Purdue model. Some systems in Level 1 had 
communication pathways through network allowlists to Safety 
Instrumented Systems (SIS) in the Safety Zone. Access to the 
Safety Zone may be the goal of an adversary who intends to cause 
a loss of safety impact, such as XENOTIME.
External Routable Network Connection to
ICS Environments Believed to be Air-Gapped
100%
2019
33%
2020
100%
90%
80%
70%
60%
50%
40%
30%
20%
10%
35
|  ICS CYBERSECURITY YEAR IN REVIEW 2020
Shared credentials and poor 
security perimeters allow 
adversaries to leverage Valid 
Accounts and gain persistent 
access to remote ICS. Valid 
Accounts is the most common TTP 
used across all Dragos ICS Activity 
Groups. Analysis of 2020 Dragos 
incident response cases indicates 
its effectiveness. 
IR Cases where Adversary Accessed 
ICS Network from Internet
IR Cases Involving Shared 
Credentials for Lateral Movement
2019
2020
2019
2020
100%
100%
66%
90%
36
|  ICS CYBERSECURITY YEAR IN REVIEW 2020
In 2020, Dragos conducted several tabletop 
exercises and incident response readiness 
workshops. The findings and outcomes of these 
engagements further illustrate the industry’s 
deep-seated, over-reliance on prevention and 
the necessity of strengthening the pillars of 
a successful ICS cyber strategy; detection, 
response, and recovery. 
Dragos observed that 75 percent of clients did 
not have clearly defined incident declaration 
thresholds or categories of severity within 
response plans. Detecting threat behaviors and 
analyzing correlated datasets are generally the 
first steps an organization takes to recognize 
an incident. The threshold for declaring an 
incident depends on many factors including 
threats, tactics, operational risk requirements, 
governing laws, and industry regulations. 
Once incidents were declared, incident 
managers were often observed by Dragos to 
have no documented guidance or playbook 
for how to employ resources or capabilities. 
Nearly 60 percent of organizations did not 
have a solidified Incident Response Plan (IRP). 
Incident managers were often left to create 
tactical response plans in real-time and in the 
middle of rapid escalations. In 2020, Dragos 
observed that 75 percent of 2020 clients did not 
have clearly defined or documented incident 
declaration thresholds or categories of severity 
available during activation of their incident 
response plans.
Cyber Readiness
•••••••••• 
•••••••••• 
•••••••••• 
•••••••••• 
•••••••••• 
•••••••••• 
•••••••••• 
•••••••••• 
•••••••••• 
••••••••••
Organizations that did not have 
clear cyber incident thresholds
Organizations that had 
a Solidified
IRP Ready
to Test
58%
2020
33%
2019
75%
37
|  ICS CYBERSECURITY YEAR IN REVIEW 2020
In 2020, 62 percent of Dragos client organizations 
did not tie a dedicated communications plan to 
their cybersecurity incident response activations. 
This is a continuance of an industry trend from 
2019. Communication plans are critical in enabling 
incident managers and stakeholders to quickly 
activate, assemble, and employ resources and 
capabilities. During an incident, the need to react 
appropriately is immediate, followed by the need 
to communicate. Lack of effective communication 
during a crisis can lead to inadequate resource 
allocation, compound risks to assets and 
personnel, and create lingering effects on bottom-
line operations. The periodic testing of IRPs can 
act as a roadmap for corporate leadership to 
convey strategic directives and objectives to an 
incident response team. 100 percent of Dragos 
exercise participants strongly agree that exercises 
are beneficial to long-term incident response 
preparation and are a valuable way to identify areas 
of improvement for industrial cybersecurity IRPs. 
•••••••••• 
•••••••••• 
•••••••••• 
•••••••••• 
•••••••••• 
•••••••••• 
•••••••••• 
•••••••••• 
•••••••••• 
••••••••••
Organizations 
that did not have 
Communications 
Plans Linked to IRP 
Activations
Organizations that had 
Difficulty Understanding 
when to Declare an 
Incident
75%
2020
83%
2019
Dragos 
customers
who Agree 
Tabletop 
Exercises are 
Beneficial to 
IRPs
62%
38
|  ICS CYBERSECURITY YEAR IN REVIEW 2020
Dragos Red Team 
In penetration tests, Dragos focuses on 
demonstrating adversary behavior that 
could have physical impacts on industrial 
processes. The team utilizes Crown Jewel 
Analysis to identify high consequence 
events, the assets that can cause them, 
and pathways to those assets specific 
to the client and the process.13 The team 
often deploys the same TTPs of specific 
ICS Activity Groups to provide real-world 
applicability. 
Below are examples 
of real-world 
findings from Dragos 
penetration testing 
engagements:
•	 Executed the 
propagation of malicious 
logic file updates from 
one asset to the entire 
deployment.
•	 Identified a Zero Day 
exploit to remotely 
execute arbitrary code 
as a read-only user on 
a Crown Jewel Human 
Machine Interface (HMI).
•	 Discovered hard-coded 
credentials on an ICS that 
monitors Crown Jewels.
100%
0%
Among all 2020 Red Team Engagements
Resulted in situations 
where the team could 
have made changes in 
controller logic
Dragos Customers’ 
Detection Capabilities 
Ineffective in 
Preventing Dragos
Red Team from 
Accessing Crown 
Jewels
Remaining 15%
that Detected Red Team 
Activity in 2020
•	 detected activity 
in real-time
•	 deterred lateral 
movement to 
other critical 
systems
12 https://www.dragos.com/resource/dependency-modeling-for-identifying-cybersecurity-crown-jewels-in-an-ics-environment/
85%
85%
2020
76%
76%
2019
39
|  ICS CYBERSECURITY YEAR IN REVIEW 2020
Recommendations
As organizations strategize a path forward, Dragos recommends five key OT cybersecurity 
initiatives to improve on in 2021 and beyond. These are based on the empirical evidence provided 
throughout the report. 
Dragos has included a graphic below each recommendation as a reference for asset owners 
looking to implement the top five the recommendations of 2020. The recommendations listed 
on the right are in descending order according to priority. Each recommendation has three or 
more actions that may help asset owners achieve the desired goal of the recommendation. These 
actions are numbered with the positive impact on that recommendation. 
The top five recommendations to enhance the security of an ICS environment are:
Visibility includes network monitoring, logging, and 
maintaining a Collection Management Framework 
(CMF).
Logging and monitoring of OT systems is essential 
for detection and incident response in addition 
to providing actionable data regarding device 
performance, operation, and reliability. Network 
traffic analysis should be prioritized based on the 
considerations of the networks and their risks.
1
Increase OT
Network Visibility
HOST/NETWORK
TRAFFIC LOG 
AGGREGATION
COLLECTION
MANAGEMENT
FRAMEWORK
NETWORK
MONITORING
ASSET
INVENTORY
INCREASE OT 
VISIBILITY
HELP ACHIEVE
1
3
2
4
40
|  ICS CYBERSECURITY YEAR IN REVIEW 2020
Crown Jewels are those assets that exercise control over the components 
most critical to the safe operation of the industrial process. Examples include 
HMIs, engineering and operator workstations, gateways, and controllers.
Prioritizing the assets that, if compromised, could cause major impacts to 
the organization is key principle of risk management.
Example: At one facility, Instrumentation and Control (I&C) staff could 
connect into the production network using a VPN. Once connected, 
they utilized RDP to access their engineering laptop. Their laptops 
had read/write permissions to any PLC in the Production Network, 
including the crown jewel PLCs. Additionally, control staff left PLC 
Run/Remote/Program key switches in remote mode meaning anyone 
with network access could edit PLC configurations and logic. Lastly, 
they did not have a mechanism to proactively detect changes to these 
PLC configurations. In summary, a compromised I&C technician 
account could modify PLC configurations and operations would not 
detect it, until an operational issue or periodic maintenance occurred.
2
Identify and Prioritize 
Crown Jewels
RED/PURPLE
TEAM
COLLECTION
MANAGEMENT
FRAMEWORK
NETWORK
MONITORING
TABLETOP
EXERCISES
ASSET
INVENTORY
SEPARATE AD
INFRASTRUCTURE
IDENTIFY AND 
PRIORITIZE CROWN 
JEWELS
1
4
2
3
5
6
41
|  ICS CYBERSECURITY YEAR IN REVIEW 2020
Incident response refers to an organization’s 
approach for handling cybersecurity incidents.
An incident response capability is necessary 
to minimize loss and restore safe operations. 
Many organizations have an enterprise IT 
incident response plan that does not account 
for, or significantly misunderstands, ICS 
incident response efforts.
3
Boost Incident 
Response Capabilities
HOST/NETWORK
TRAFFIC LOG 
AGGREGATION
COLLECTION
MANAGEMENT
FRAMEWORK
TABLETOP
EXERCISES
ASSET
INVENTORY
BOOST IR
CAPABILITIES
HELP ACHIEVE
1
3
2
4
42
|  ICS CYBERSECURITY YEAR IN REVIEW 2020
This includes issues like weak segmentation 
between IT and OT networks, permissive 
firewall rulesets, and externally routable 
network connections.
Network segmentation should be continuously 
monitored to ensure it is not bypassed or 
negated.
Example: A client believed their SIS devices 
were properly segmented. An external 
connection was found that could have 
allowed an adversary to bypass multiple 
network boundary devices with only a 
Virtual Local Area Network (VLAN) between 
the connection and the Safety Zone.
4
Validate Network 
Segmentation
RED/PURPLE
TEAM
HOST/NETWORK
TRAFFIC LOG 
AGGREGATION
NETWORK
MONITORING
SEPARATE AD
INFRASTRUCTURE
VALIDATE NETWORK 
SEGMENTATION
1
4
2
ASSET
INVENTORY
3
5
43
|  ICS CYBERSECURITY YEAR IN REVIEW 2020
This includes accounts shared between IT and 
OT, default accounts, and vendor accounts. 
AD shared between the enterprise and ICS 
networks is one of the most common findings 
that should be mitigated.
Adversaries seek to compromise and leverage 
valid accounts as a means to access critical 
industrial systems.
During one assessment, Dragos obtained root 
access to the affected entities by successfully 
identifying the root password for all the 
impacted systems related to the client’s HMI. 
This was accomplished through guessing and 
using common default passwords.
5
Secure Credential 
Management
RED/PURPLE
TEAM
ASSET
INVENTORY
SEPARATE AD
INFRASTRUCTURE
SECURE 
CREDENTIAL 
MANAGEMENT
HELP ACHIEVE
1
3
2
44
|  ICS CYBERSECURITY YEAR IN REVIEW 2020
Dragos is an industrial (OT/ICS/IIoT) 
cybersecurity company on a mission to safeguard 
civilization.
 
Dragos is privately held and headquartered in 
the Washington, D.C. area with regional presence 
around the world, including Canada, Australia, 
New Zealand, Europe, and the Middle East.
Dragos.com
