By Insikt Group
®
August 30, 2023
CYBER
THREAT
ANALYSIS
Empire Dragon Accelerates 
Covert Information 
Operations, Converges 
with Russian Narratives
CYBER THREAT ANALYSIS
Executive Summary
We have identified a coordinated and inauthentic network, tracked as Empire Dragon, which is likely
operated by influence actors aligned with the Chinese government and based in China. It has been
active since early 2021. Based on this network’s activity, we suspect it overlaps with other networks
previously attributed to Chinese interests, including Mandiant’s Spamouflage Dragon and Graphika’s
DRAGONBRIDGE. Over the course of 10 distinct information operations (IOs) analyzed by Insikt Group,
Empire Dragon’s display of capabilities shows a deliberate attempt to manipulate global audiences using
a constantly broadening array of languages, topics, and platforms.
This network’s activities have accelerated and shifted in focus since August 2022 — while previous
activity targeted China’s so-called “Five Poisons”, since August 2022 the network has shifted to
attacking the United States (US) government and its allies in reaction to specific geopolitical events and
attempting to capitalize on emerging conspiracy theories.
We have also observed an increased narrative convergence with Russian information operations, as
Empire Dragon amplified narratives seeded by the wider Russian disinformation and propaganda
ecosystem. These narratives included conspiracy theories around the NordStream pipeline sabotage
and the US developing biological weapons in Ukraine for use against Russia. Empire Dragon’s use of
“useful idiots” (CCP-friendly Western commentators, or “foreign friends”), fringe political groups, and
account impersonation also indicates a degree of tactical convergence. This convergence signals a
wider shift in the threat landscape for covert information operations in China, which previously relied on
its own brand of information operations broadly promoting China’s international standing — now,
Chinese government-aligned influence actors are likely in the process of adopting and adapting the
Russian playbook for information operations.
Despite this accelerated activity and trial of new tactics, however, Empire Dragon has consistently
failed to instigate organic engagement with its narratives, limiting its ability to propagate disinformation
and manipulate international discourse. This is likely due to low-quality content creation, the use of
machine-translated text, and sporadic amplification of its own content. Improvements in multilingual
large language models (LLMs) and image-generation models will likely enable IO networks like Empire
Dragon to overcome these challenges.
Empire Dragon will very likely continue to capitalize on current events and conspiracy theories and
iterate on its tactics, techniques, and procedures (TTPs) in preparation for key events in 2024 that are
of vital importance to the Chinese government, including the Taiwanese and US presidential elections.
Empire Dragon will likely seek to influence voters participating in these elections to promote Chinese
interests by supporting the Kuomintang, attacking US political leaders, sowing division among voters,
and discrediting critics of the Chinese government in the lead-up to these events.
Recorded Future® | www.recordedfuture.com | Distribution: Public, from Insikt Group
2
CYBER THREAT ANALYSIS
Key Findings
●
Insikt Group has identified 10 covert information operations conducted by a coordinated network
between early 2021 and 2023 that promoted narratives aligned with the Chinese government.
●
We attribute these operations to a coordinated inauthentic network that we believe is likely
operated by a Chinese state-aligned actor located in China. We track this network as Empire
Dragon.
●
Empire Dragon has promoted narratives attempting to discredit 3 of the so-called “Five Poisons”
(the 3 are Taiwanese independence advocates, Uyghurs, and Falun Gong), as well as dissidents
like Guo Wengui, the US and United Kingdom (UK) governments, major US technology and
pharmaceutical companies, and non-governmental organizations.
●
6 of the covert information operations were conducted tactically in response to specific
geopolitical events including Nancy Pelosi’s visit to Taiwan, the NordStream pipeline sabotage,
discussions on the origins of COVID-19, the death of Queen Elizabeth II, and the publication of
reports critical of the Chinese government for its overseas policing and persecution of Uyghur
ethnic minorities in Xinjiang.
●
Recent Empire Dragon activity sought to amplify conspiracy theories such as those blaming the
US government for causing the COVID-19 outbreak by conducting biological weapons research,
allowing US pharmaceutical firms to develop new strains of the virus, and sabotaging the
NordStream pipeline.
●
China is likely adopting and adapting the Russian playbook for disinformation and propaganda,
as demonstrated by the convergence of narratives and capabilities observed in IOs conducted
by Empire Dragon in 2022 and 2023.
●
Empire Dragon has some overlap in technical indicators and narratives with clusters of activity
tracked by Mandiant as DRAGONBRIDGE, and limited overlap with a network tracked by Graphika
as Spamouflage Dragon.
●
Empire Dragon used a mixture of previously observed and new TTPs, including using inauthentic
accounts, coordinated campaigns impersonating targets’ social media accounts, accounts using
similar naming conventions, and using embedded text in videos.
The Playbook
Empire Dragon is a coordinated inauthentic network with exhaustive breadth in its social media
presence. Insikt Group observed content related to the network posted by inauthentic accounts on over
180 platforms, blogs, forums, and websites in over 20 languages. While we enumerated approximately
300 accounts as being very likely part of this network, the actual number of Empire Dragon assets is
almost certainly much larger. However, content posted by the network largely failed to garner
significant engagement from targeted audiences on the various platforms.
Nevertheless, the sheer quantity of posts identified by Insikt Group likely provides key insights into the
TTPs used by Chinese government-aligned influence actors in their covert information operations,
Recorded Future® | www.recordedfuture.com | Distribution: Public, from Insikt Group
3
CYBER THREAT ANALYSIS
which is likely increasingly resembling the Russian IO playbook. This includes tactics such as amplifying
1
conspiracy theories, delivering narratives via “useful idiots” and divisive domestic players such as fringe
political groups, or using coordinated impersonation campaigns to divert attention from targets.
Beyond similarities in scale and TTPs, we have also noted a narrative convergence with Russian IO in
the content posted by Empire Dragon. Russia and China’s shared interest in discrediting the US and
sowing discord among its allies has led to increased cooperation between overt IO media channels.
Similarly, Empire Dragon activity almost certainly demonstrates a narrative convergence between
Russian and Chinese covert IO, reflected in the network’s increased focus on capitalizing on existing
narratives and geopolitical events to conduct operations benefiting both governments while maintaining
strategic campaigns of benefit to the Chinese government.
Since August 2022, we have observed a shift in Empire Dragon’s focus toward conducting more tactical
information operations. Among the thousands of posts identified, we observed a clear dichotomy
between strategic and tactical operations conducted by the network. While the former has been
focused on persistent campaigns targeting long-term opponents of the Chinese government, tactical
operations have manifested as short-term, reactive bursts of identical content in response to specific
geopolitical events.
Figure 1: Timeline of Empire Dragon operations, with an estimated number of posts (Source: Recorded Future)
4 of Empire Dragon’s sustained strategic operations focused on targeting long-term adversaries of the
Chinese government, including 2 of the so-called Five Poisons (the Uyghur and the Falun Gong),
Chinese dissidents like Guo Wengui, and the US government. These campaigns have sustained their
1 The US Department of Defense defines information operations as “the integrated employment during military operations of information-related
capabilities (IRCs), in concert with other lines of operation to influence, disrupt, corrupt, or usurp the decision-making of adversaries and
potential adversaries while protecting our own”. IRCs include electronic warfare (EW), computer network operations (CNO), psychological
operations (PSYOP), military deception (MILDEC), and operations security (OPSEC).
Recorded Future® | www.recordedfuture.com | Distribution: Public, from Insikt Group
4
CYBER THREAT ANALYSIS
operational tempo for longer periods, with new narratives and content being introduced over time
against each target.
We have also identified 6 tactical operations which were short-term, high-volume operations in reaction
to current events, including the following:
●
Discrediting the publishing of non-governmental organizations' (NGOs’) findings including the
Safeguard Defenders’ report on Chinese transnational policing released in September 2022.
●
Co-opting the Ninth Review of the Biological Weapons Convention in December 2022.
●
Capitalizing on emerging conspiracy theories, such as accusations made by Project Veritas’s
Pfizer report, the NordStream sabotage conspiracy theory, and the death of Queen Elizabeth II.
Tactical operations conducted by Empire Dragon have accelerated since August 2022, shifting from
focusing on strategic operations waged since at least 2021. This likely reflects increased tensions with
the US on the international stage, including geopolitical flashpoints like Nancy Pelosi’s visit to Taiwan in
August 2022.
Operations and Narratives
We identified 10 distinct operations from February 2021 to March 2023 conducted by Empire Dragon.
While this is likely only a subset of the total number of operations conducted or attempted by the
network in that timeframe, these operations have sought to discredit adversaries of the Chinese
government, which, combined with other attribution factors (described later in this report), is likely
indicative of Empire Dragon’s alignment with the Chinese government. Many of these operations were
previously reported by other organizations. Based on the overlap in assets that participated in these
campaigns, we believe all 10 operations below have been conducted by a single coordinated network.
Recorded Future® | www.recordedfuture.com | Distribution: Public, from Insikt Group
5
CYBER THREAT ANALYSIS
Name
Targets
Dates
Estimated Size
(# of Posts)
Guo Wengui
Guo Wengui, Dr. Li-Meng
Yan
Early 2021 - Present
10,000+
US Cyber Hegemony
US Government & Allies
May 2021- Present
10,000+
Falun Gong and NDTV
Falun Gong, NDTV
October 2021 - August 2022
600+
Human Rights Violations
in Xinjiang
Adrian Zenz, Sir Geoffrey
Ness, Lu Pin
December 2021 - May 2022
130+
Nancy Pelosi / Taiwan
Taiwan, Tsai Ing-Wen,
Nancy Pelosi
August 2022
10,000+
Queen Elizabeth II’s Death
Liz Truss, UK Government
September 2022
75+
110 Overseas Report
Safeguard Defenders
September - November 2022
1,000+
Ninth Review of the
Biological Weapons
Convention (BWC)
US Government
December 2022 - January
2023
270+
Pfizer COVID-19
Conspiracy
Pfizer, US Government
February 2023
230+
Nordstream Sabotage
Conspiracy
US Government & Allies
February 2023
350+
Table 1: Summary of Empire Dragon operations (Source: Recorded Future)
Guo Wengui
From early 2021, Empire Dragon conducted an IO targeting Guo Wengui and his supporters, likely in an
attempt to undermine Wengui’s criticism of the Chinese Communist Party (CCP). We identified over 750
posts by 65 Empire Dragon accounts targeting Wengui, although we estimate that the actual volume of
posts and authors is much higher based on previous reporting on this network. Empire Dragon’s
ongoing Wengui campaign bears narrative similarities with campaigns previously identified by Bellingcat
and the Stanford Internet Observatory.
Wengui is a Chinese dissident billionaire notorious for criticizing the CCP and building a media empire
spreading COVID-19 disinformation, with close ties to Steve Bannon. Wengui has previously been
reported by Graphika as having built an extensive network of online influencers and supporters dubbed
“ants”, who are repeated targets in narratives spread by Empire Dragon accounts.
Empire Dragon narratives used in the operation targeting Wengui and his supporters include:
Recorded Future® | www.recordedfuture.com | Distribution: Public, from Insikt Group
6
CYBER THREAT ANALYSIS
●
Blaming Wengui for fueling a rise in anti-Asian sentiment in the US by providing a platform for Dr.
Li-Meng Yan, a Chinese virologist claiming that COVID-19 was manufactured in China.
●
Highlighting Wengui’s betrayal of Chinese dissident YouTuber Lude despite their support.
●
Accusing Wengui of interference in the 2020 US elections by claiming to have compromising
material involving Hunter Biden, in a move to support Donald Trump and Steve Bannon.
●
Calling attention to Wengui’s alleged cryptocurrency fraud (his launching of HimalayaCoin), which
was the motive for Wengui’s arrest in the US in March 2023.
●
Criticizing Wengui’s fundraising efforts following the fatal flooding in Zhenzhou in June 2021
despite being in exile. Empire Dragon accused the billionaire of exploiting the event for personal
gain, attracting international attention, and blaming the “man-made” disaster on the Chinese
government.
●
Highlighting Wengui’s criticism of Western media outlets and his claims that they are controlled
by the CCP, following a November 2018 Forbes article stating that a New York law firm sued
Wengui for over $640,000 in unpaid legal fees.
US Surveillance, Cyber Activity, and Malign Influence
Beginning in May 2021, Empire Dragon conducted a multi-pronged IO (alongside overt government and
state media channels) targeting the US government, blaming it for jeopardizing global cybersecurity,
conducting mass surveillance, and being the source of malign influence in other countries while
infringing on its own citizens’ freedom of speech. The IO likely sought to undermine the US on a global
stage, divide the US and its allies, highlight its alleged hypocrisy, and deflect blame from cyberattacks
attributed to Chinese state-sponsored threat activity groups. Insikt Group identified over 12,000 posts
across social media platforms, websites, and blogs as part of this operation. However, we estimate that
the true number is likely much higher given moderation efforts that resulted in takedowns of Empire
Dragon accounts.
Empire Dragon narratives used in the operation targeting the US government include:
●
Attributing the activities of BlackMatter, a ransomware group, to US government agencies since
around April 2022.
●
Attributing the activities of APT41, a state-sponsored cyber threat activity group attributed to
the Chinese government, to the US government’s National Security Agency (NSA). This narrative
was first identified by security researchers in October 2022. Researchers identified multiple
copycat social media accounts imitating Intrusion Truth, a group that has regularly published
research doxxing Chinese state-sponsored threat activity group members, spreading the
narrative that the US NSA was behind APT41.
●
Discrediting the US government’s Clean Network Initiative as an attempt to limit the growth of
Chinese technology companies, while accusing US tech companies of being complicit in global
surveillance conducted by the US government.
●
Alleging the involvement of US social media platforms in allowing the US government to conduct
malign influence operations against foreign states. Specific instances alleged by Empire Dragon
include using bots to promote “Russophobic” content in the week following the Russian invasion
Recorded Future® | www.recordedfuture.com | Distribution: Public, from Insikt Group
7
CYBER THREAT ANALYSIS
of Ukraine; blaming the outbreak of COVID-19 on Chinese biological weapons research; and
conducting information operations campaigns in the Middle East.
Insikt Group assesses that this campaign almost certainly remains ongoing, and is being supported by
overt communications from Chinese government officials and media sources. Temporal analysis in the
Recorded Future® Intelligence Cloud (Figure 2) shows that Chinese government sources’ publishing of
content amplifying these narratives often coincided with Empire Dragon’s operation.
Figure 2: Timeline view of Chinese and media government sources versus social media mentions of Empire Dragon narratives
targeting the US government (Source: Recorded Future)
We also identified Empire Dragon activity on Gab, a social media platform favored by US alt-right
groups and previously leveraged by Russian information operations. Empire Dragon accounts on Gab
posted content attacking the US government using hashtags previously observed on other social media
platforms such as #APT41, #黑客帝国, and #窃密帝国.
Recorded Future® | www.recordedfuture.com | Distribution: Public, from Insikt Group
8
CYBER THREAT ANALYSIS
Figures 3, 4, 5, and 6: Gab posts by Empire Dragon accounts (original and translated via Google Translate) (Source: Gab [1,2])
Falun Gong and NTDTV
Between October 2021 and August 2022, Empire Dragon conducted an operation likely seeking to
discredit “Shi Tao” (whose alleged real name is “Li Jianguo”), a television show host presenting several
segments for New Tang Dynasty TV (NTDTV), which is part of the Epoch Times Media Group. Like other
Epoch Times projects, NTDTV is notorious for spreading anti-CCP narratives in addition to amplifying
COVID-19 disinformation and promoting Donald Trump. We observed approximately 600 posts by
Empire Dragon accounts spreading this content.
The content attempts to highlight ties between Shi Tao and Li Hong Zhi, the spiritual leader and founder
of Falun Gong, an international religious movement long persecuted by the CCP as 1 of its so-called
“Five Poisons”. Narratives spread by Empire Dragon accounts described Shi Tao as “wearing a Falun
coat”, attempting to highlight Shi Tao’s affiliation to the religious movement based on Tao’s relationship
with Zhi, in an effort to discredit NTDTV.
Recorded Future® | www.recordedfuture.com | Distribution: Public, from Insikt Group
9
CYBER THREAT ANALYSIS
Figures 7 and 8: Reddit posts almost certainly associated with Empire Dragon accounts (original and translated via Google
Translate) (Source: Reddit)
Recorded Future® | www.recordedfuture.com | Distribution: Public, from Insikt Group
10
CYBER THREAT ANALYSIS
Figures 9 and 10: Google Groups post by an Empire Dragon account (original and translated via Google Translate)
(Source: Google Groups)
China’s Human Rights Violations in Xinjiang
Since December 2021, Empire Dragon has been engaged in a persistent operation targeting
international NGOs known for highlighting human rights abuses in China’s Xinjiang province against
Uyghur minority groups, as well as promoting positive coverage of the CCP’s treatment of these groups.
This IO almost certainly sought to shape international discourse on China’s human rights violations by
discrediting international critics of the Chinese government, while promoting its own “useful idiots” as
sources of truth. Insikt Group has identified approximately 130 posts by Empire Dragon accounts
supporting this operation.
The CCP’s persecution of the Uyghur minority in China’s Xinjiang province has garnered international
condemnation of China’s treatment of its Muslim minority groups and the opacity of its communications
around human rights violations. On August 24, 2022, the US Department of State’s Global Engagement
Center (GEC) published a report documenting China’s efforts to conduct IO seeking to “drown out
Recorded Future® | www.recordedfuture.com | Distribution: Public, from Insikt Group
11
CYBER THREAT ANALYSIS
critical narratives” by promoting positive content covering China’s treatment of Uyghurs and striking
back at international critics.
Empire Dragon accounts were observed amplifying the following narratives:
●
Discrediting Adrian Zenz, a German anthropologist known for publishing the Xinjiang Police Files,
a trove of leaked documents revealing China’s police targeting of Uyghurs in Xinjiang between
2000 and 2018. The network accused Zenz of committing “academic fraud” and alleged the
Xinjiang Police files as being “full of lies”.
●
Attacking the Coalition for Genocide Response, a UK charity that has attempted to bring to light
China’s repression of Uyghurs.
●
Discrediting Sir Geoffrey Nice, a British human rights lawyer serving as Chair of the Uyghur
Tribunal, a “people’s tribunal” documenting evidence of human rights abuses in Xinjiang.
●
Discrediting Dolkun Isa — an Uyghur activist and the president of the World Uyghur Congress —
by reiterating the CCP’s designation of Isa as a “terrorist” and accusing Isa of being an “American
marionette”.
●
Promoting journalists Maxime Vivas and Edgar Snow, who are both known apologists for the CCP
and its repression of Uyghurs, as examples of foreign journalists who had visited Xinjiang and
reportedly found no evidence of genocide. China has a history of overtly co-opting foreign
journalists with pro-CCP views as “foreign friends”, a tactic commonly referred to by Western
sources as co-opting “useful idiots”. Similar tactics have traditionally been associated with
Russian IO.
●
Promoting positive coverage of Xinjiang, a tactic previously observed being used by pro-Chinese
networks as reported by ProPublica, the BBC, and CNN.
Figure 11: Quora post by an Empire Dragon account (Source: Quora)
Recorded Future® | www.recordedfuture.com | Distribution: Public, from Insikt Group
12
CYBER THREAT ANALYSIS
Figure 12: Medium post by an Empire Dragon account (Source: Medium)
Figure 13: YouTube video spread by Empire Dragon accounts (Source: YouTube)
Nancy Pelosi’s Visit to Taiwan
In August 2022, Empire Dragon accounts posted content amplifying narratives targeting then-speaker
of the US House of Representatives Nancy Pelosi and Tsai Ing-Wen, the president of Taiwan. This
operation almost certainly sought to dissuade further visits by US officials to Taiwan and undermine
domestic political support for both leaders. Narratives spread by Empire Dragon insinuated that Nancy
Recorded Future® | www.recordedfuture.com | Distribution: Public, from Insikt Group
13
CYBER THREAT ANALYSIS
Pelosi and Tsai Ing-Wen threatened Chinese sovereignty in exchange for personal political gain ahead
of the Taiwanese local elections and US midterm elections held in late 2022. We identified over 1,800
such posts from Empire Dragon accounts between August and September 2022, although we suspect
the true number is much higher due to account takedowns and posts identified by previous reporting.
On August 2, 2022, Nancy Pelosi conducted a diplomatic visit to Taiwan, prompting a strong reaction
from the Chinese government, which began conducting military exercises in the region to dissuade
further strengthening of US-Taiwan relations and pressure the US government to cancel the visit. These
military exercises were also accompanied by pro-CCP hacktivist and influence activity.
We identified an overlap between the content, narratives, and techniques used by Empire Dragon
accounts with the content found in previous reporting by Graphika, including accounts sharing videos
with the title “mmexport1660466180684”, sharing identical YouTube videos, and using stolen profile
pictures; the majority of the accounts were created in August 2022. We identified several accounts
involved in the campaign described by Graphika involved in other operations conducted by Empire
Dragon, including the Biological Weapons Convention campaign in December 2022.
Empire Dragon narratives used in this operation to target US and Taiwanese leaders include:
●
Attacking Nancy Pelosi’s family, including highlighting her husband’s drunk driving offense and
alleged involvement in insider stock trading as well as an FBI investigation related to her son.
Empire Dragon accounts alleged that Pelosi’s visit to Taiwan was an attempt to divert domestic
attention away from these scandals for personal political gain and to promote the Democratic
party ahead of the 2022 US midterm elections.
●
Calling attention to Tsai Ing-Wen’s deepening of Taiwanese relations with Japan despite the
latter’s occupation of Taiwan until the end of World War II and China’s “war of resistance against
Japanese aggression”.
●
Accusing Tsai Ing-Wen of exploiting US-Taiwan cooperation to gain electoral support for the
Democratic Progressive Party (DPP) ahead of the 2022 local elections in Taiwan.
Recorded Future® | www.recordedfuture.com | Distribution: Public, from Insikt Group
14
CYBER THREAT ANALYSIS
Figure 14: Social media post related to Nancy Pelosi made by an Empire Dragon account (Source: Tumblr)
Queen Elizabeth II’s Death
In September 2022, Empire Dragon promoted the conspiracy theory that sought to blame former UK
Prime Minister Liz Truss for the death of Queen Elizabeth II. The IO likely sought to weaken the
credibility of the Truss administration and destabilize the UK government among UK voters and
international audiences shortly after her confirmation by the queen, citing early failures in economic
policy, the energy crisis resulting from the Russian invasion of Ukraine, and the loss of a stabilizing
power in the queen. This operation demonstrated early intent from Empire Dragon to capitalize on
current events and emerging conspiracy theories to target the UK government, a key US ally. We
identified approximately 75 posts by Empire Dragon amplifying conspiracy theories and attacking Liz
Truss in the week following the queen’s death on September 8, 2022.
We previously identified a high level of inauthentic activity as a result of the death of Queen Elizabeth II,
with many fake accounts imitating UK-based media outlets capitalizing on the event. Conspiracy
theories also rapidly emerged from groups like QAnon, claiming that the COVID-19 vaccine had caused
the queen’s death or that the queen had already passed long before official announcements of her
death.
Empire Dragon narratives observed after September 13, 2022, included the following:
●
Implying that ex-prime minister Liz Truss had caused the queen’s death via a “handshake of
death” upon Truss’s inauguration at Buckingham Palace on September 6, 2022, capitalizing on a
conspiracy theory that originally emerged on TikTok.
●
Attacking Liz Truss and the UK government, stating that “Now that the Queen is gone, the Truss
government will lose a ‘stabilizer’”, pointing toward the devaluation of the British pound as a
result of Truss’s “mini-budget”, rising inflation, and worries about an energy crisis in the
Recorded Future® | www.recordedfuture.com | Distribution: Public, from Insikt Group
15
CYBER THREAT ANALYSIS
upcoming winter as a result of Russia’s war against Ukraine. The content goes on to call Truss a
“political chameleon”, claiming that “polls show 52 percent of Britons think Ms. Truss would be a
terrible prime minister”.
Figure 15: Nairaland post by an Empire Dragon account (Source: Nairaland)
Figure 16: Blogspot article by an Empire Dragon account (Source: BlogSpot)
Recorded Future® | www.recordedfuture.com | Distribution: Public, from Insikt Group
16
CYBER THREAT ANALYSIS
110 Overseas Report
In September 2022, Empire Dragon conducted an IO targeting NGO Safeguard Defenders following the
publication of an investigation titled “110 Overseas: Chinese Transnational Policing Gone Wild” on
September 12, 2022, which accuses the Chinese government of creating 54 covert “overseas police
stations” to track and police Chinese citizens living abroad. The IO almost certainly sought to deny
allegations of the Chinese government’s wrongdoings in order to mitigate reputational damage caused
by findings published by international organizations on its various abuses. We identified over 1,000
posts by Empire Dragon assets as part of this operation.
According to Safeguard Defenders, these stations were identified as part of an investigation into a
wider campaign by the Chinese government between 2021 and 2022 to track and repatriate 230,000
Chinese citizens guilty of telecommunications fraud. The report ultimately accused the Chinese
government of breaking international law by setting up illegal police stations, thereby violating the
territorial sovereignty of host countries. The Chinese government officially denied these claims,
asserting that the stations exist to “assist overseas Chinese nationals” in accessing government digital
services. In May 2023, Safeguard Defenders published a report on a “disinformation and harassment”
campaign, which we attribute to Empire Dragon.
Empire Dragon narratives used to target Safeguard Defenders and mitigate against reputational damage
in this operation include:
●
Highlighting successful cooperation between Chinese law enforcement and international
partners, including Operation First Light, which saw a global crackdown against telecom fraud,
business email compromise (BEC), and social engineering, and Operation Great Wall in 2019,
leading to the extradition of 94 Taiwanese nationals involved in telecom fraud to Beijing.
●
Discrediting Safeguard Defenders and its founder, Peter Dahlin, stating that the organization is
“just a tool used by the United States to discredit China, and Peter Dahlin is just a representative
of the United States to attack and discredit China”.
Figure 17: YouTube channel belonging to an Empire Dragon account (Source: YouTube — page removed)
Recorded Future® | www.recordedfuture.com | Distribution: Public, from Insikt Group
17
CYBER THREAT ANALYSIS
Figure 18: Forum post by an Empire Dragon account discrediting Safeguard Defenders (Source: BBS Forum)
Ninth Review of the Biological Weapons Convention
In late December 2022, we observed Empire Dragon accounts conducting an operation co-opting the
2022 Ninth Review of the Biological Weapons Conference (BWC) to spread narratives supporting
Russia’s claims of the US’s ongoing development of biological weapons in Ukraine and blaming the
COVID-19 outbreak on the US. The IO almost certainly sought to undermine US credibility
internationally and support Russian narratives on the alleged US development of biological weapons.
We identified over 270 posts by Empire Dragon accounts as part of this operation.
Insikt Group previously identified these narratives being amplified by Russian state-sponsored influence
actors and media organizations in March 2022 following Russia’s invasion of Ukraine. This operation
signals a clear attempt at repurposing narratives originally created by the Russian government to attack
the US government.
Disinformation amplified by Empire Dragon accounts claims that the US was the only country to vote
against a fictional agreement on biological weapons verification mechanisms taking place at the Ninth
Review (referring to a similar vote in 2001) and that even its “hardcore allies” had voted in favor of the
agreement. These narratives were reported in April 2023 by Nisos, which attributed the operation to “an
inauthentic online network supporting pro-People’s Republic of China (PRC) narratives”.
Narratives spread by Empire Dragon that co-opt the conference and target the US government include:
●
Implying that the US government’s fictional sole vote is an attempt at concealing its responsibility
in creating the COVID-19 virus.
Recorded Future® | www.recordedfuture.com | Distribution: Public, from Insikt Group
18
CYBER THREAT ANALYSIS
●
Highlighting historical examples of US experiments in biological warfare, such as Operation
Sea-Spray, which reportedly saw the testing of biological weapons by the US government near
San Francisco in the 1950s.
●
Amplifying Russian disinformation narratives previously identified by Insikt Group in March 2022,
stating that “it is understood” that the US sponsors 26 biological warfare laboratories in Ukraine
“in the midst of the Russia-Ukraine conflict”, citing “documents seized by Russia in Ukraine”.
Russian IO networks had previously used such narratives as justification for the Russian invasion
of Ukraine and falsely claimed that laboratories established under the Biological Threat
Reduction Program (BTRP), first established in the aftermath of the Cold War to destroy
biological weapons stockpiles, were used to manufacture biological weapons in Ukraine.
Figure 19: Empire Dragon accounts spreading identical content (Source: Reddit)
Figure 20: Social media post by an Empire Dragon account (Source: Instagram)
Recorded Future® | www.recordedfuture.com | Distribution: Public, from Insikt Group
19
CYBER THREAT ANALYSIS
Pfizer COVID-19 Conspiracy Theories
In February 2023, we identified an Empire Dragon IO amplifying claims that Pfizer was actively
developing new strains of COVID-19 with the complicity of the US government, tech companies, and
Western media. In this instance, Empire Dragon likely sought to further the narrative that the US was
responsible for the COVID-19 outbreak by accusing US pharmaceutical companies and the US
government of deliberately spreading new strains of the virus. We identified over 230 posts by Empire
Dragon accounts attempting to exploit findings from a US conservative group to support narratives
blaming the US for developing the virus.
On January 25, 2023, Project Veritas uploaded an undercover interview of Jordon Walker, a Pfizer
employee. Project Veritas, referred to by the New York Times as a US “conservative group known for its
deceptive tactics”, claimed that the video demonstrates that Pfizer is actively developing new strains of
COVID-19 via directed evolution research. These claims were officially denied by Pfizer and debunked
by scientific experts. Since the outbreak of COVID-19, controlling the narrative of the virus’s origin has
been a key component of China’s overt and covert influence efforts. Insikt Group previously identified
overt IO by the Chinese government and state media at the onset of the pandemic in February 2020.
These were followed by subsequent campaigns to criticize the West’s response to COVID-19 and attack
domestic critics of China’s zero-COVID policy.
Content posted by Empire Dragon accounts following the publication of Project Veritas’s video included
the following narratives:
●
Claiming that Pfizer is actively developing its own variant of COVID-19, which is “technically
possible” according to Chinese experts.
●
Accusing the US Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA) of refusing to investigate Pfizer, citing a
“revolving door” between DEA agents and Pfizer executives. We note that the agency
responsible for vaccine safety in the US government is the Food and Drug Administration (FDA),
not the DEA.
●
Accusing US tech companies and Western media of censoring the video, and discrediting “two
well-known virus experts in Hong Kong and the mainland” who had claimed that “Pfizer would
never conduct such a study”.
Recorded Future® | www.recordedfuture.com | Distribution: Public, from Insikt Group
20
CYBER THREAT ANALYSIS
Figure 21: Project Veritas’s video posted on a Japanese-language video site (Source: Niconico)
NordStream Sabotage Conspiracy Theories
In late February to early March 2023, Empire Dragon promoted conspiracy theories about the US
government being responsible for sabotaging the NordStream pipeline in September 2022. The IO likely
sought to sow discord between the US government and its European and North Atlantic Treaty
Organization (NATO) allies in the context of the Russian invasion of Ukraine. Based on the languages in
which this content was disseminated, the operation also likely sought to dissuade other governments
(in Arabic-speaking countries and China’s regional competitors like Indonesia, Thailand, and Japan)
from forming security partnerships with the US based on its alleged treatment of its European allies. We
identified over 350 posts by Empire Dragon accounts amplifying these conspiracies.
On September 26, 2022, reports emerged that natural gas had begun leaking from NordStream
pipelines 1 and 2 as a result of underwater explosions. Russian president Vladimir Putin subsequently
accused the West of sabotaging the pipeline in the context of Russia’s invasion of Ukraine, alleging that
the West’s objective was to decrease European reliance on Russian energy, thereby cutting off an
important section of Russian state revenue. While the US and European Union (EU) declared that the
explosions were likely a result of deliberate sabotage, both formally denied responsibility.
On February 8, 2023, American journalist Seymour Hersh published an article titled “How America Took
Out The Nord Stream Pipeline”, aiming to prove the alleged involvement of the US government in
planning and executing the NordStream attacks. Hersh had previously amplified conspiratorial
narratives around false flag chemical attacks in Syria and the killing of Osama bin Laden by US armed
forces. A report by EUvsDisinfo found that Hersh’s investigation had been amplified by Russian media
outlets and state social media accounts, despite most of the journalists’ claims being debunked by
OSINT investigators and fact-checkers.
Recorded Future® | www.recordedfuture.com | Distribution: Public, from Insikt Group
21
CYBER THREAT ANALYSIS
Empire Dragon narratives observed in this operation included the following:
●
Asserting that despite the fact that Hersh’s sources have been “criticized by his peers, his
articles have all been confirmed at a later stage”, conferring legitimacy to Hersh’s conspiratorial
claims. Empire Dragon further attempts to frame the US media’s silence on Hersh’s claims as an
admission of guilt.
●
Framing Hersh’s findings as a “confirmation of the Russian allegations”, which were identified as
earlier attempts by the Russian government and state media to blame the sabotage on the US
government.
●
Claiming that “the United States has deliberately sabotaged energy facilities in other countries
for its own personal gain”, citing US attacks on Nicaraguan energy infrastructure in 1983.
●
Arguing that the US’s European allies have suffered “repeated back-stabbing” by the US and
have become the “real victims” of the Russian invasion of Ukraine via US economic policy, which
allegedly seeks to exploit the energy crisis and use protectionist trade policies to accomplish its
“ultimate goal” of weakening the EU.
Empire Dragon’s targeting of key US allies is further demonstrated by the detection of these narratives
in content in many European and NATO member languages including English, French, German, Spanish,
Italian, Greek, Czech, Polish, Portuguese, Swedish, Norwegian, Turkish, and Hungarian. We also
observed posts in Chinese, Russian, Japanese, Arabic, Thai, and Indonesian,.
Figure 22: YouTube video by an Empire Dragon account (Source: YouTube — page removed)
Recorded Future® | www.recordedfuture.com | Distribution: Public, from Insikt Group
22
CYBER THREAT ANALYSIS
Figure 23: German and French versions of Empire Dragon content spread by the same Empire Dragon account
(Source: Medium)
Attribution
Empire Dragon is a likely coordinated and inauthentic network aligned with the Chinese government.
Insikt Group assesses that Empire Dragon’s operators are likely located in China. Using NATO
STRATCOM’s IO attribution framework, the following factors support this attribution.
Behavioral patterns:
●
Network analysis reveals high coordination between accounts sharing identical text content,
links, and images.
●
Pattern-of-life (PoL) analysis based on posting and account registration times shows that Empire
Dragon activity is consistent with Chinese office hours and weekdays, indicating that the
network is likely human-operated from China.
●
In 1 instance, we found Empire Dragon content posted before being printed in a CCP-run
newspaper 6 days later.
●
Activation times reveal that this network is likely operated by a well-resourced actor capable of
registering accounts at scale and with the strategic intent to preserve dormant accounts for later
use.
Contextual evidence:
●
Narratives targeting the US government and its allies, including Taiwan and the UK.
Recorded Future® | www.recordedfuture.com | Distribution: Public, from Insikt Group
23
CYBER THREAT ANALYSIS
●
Narratives targeting “Five Poisons” and other PRC adversaries, including the Falun Gong, Taiwan,
Uyghurs, and Guo Wengui, and attacking reports on the PRC’s overseas policing strategies.
●
Narratives looking to shape international discourse on narratives of strategic interest directly
beneficial to the Chinese government, such as the origins of COVID-19, tech competition, and
surveillance.
Overlap with previous reporting:
We identified overlap with previous reporting from the following entities, who broadly attributed similar
content and narratives to state-aligned networks operating in the interests of the Chinese government:
Author
Date
Overlap
Author’s Attribution
Graphika
September 2022
Narratives, TTPs,
Content, Accounts
“limited connections to the Spamouflage network”
Mandiant
October 2022
Narratives, TTPs,
Content, Accounts
A network “operating in support of the political interests of
the People’s Republic of China (PRC)”
Nisos
April 2023
Narratives, TTPs,
Content
“inauthentic online network supporting pro-People’s Republic
of China (PRC) narratives”
ASPI
April 2023
Narratives, TTPs,
Content, PoL
“a previously unreported CCP cyber-enabled influence
operation linked to the Spamouflage network”
Safeguard
Defenders
May 2023
Narratives, TTPs,
Content
N/A
Table 2: Overlap between Empire Dragon activity and networks reported by other organizations (Source: Recorded Future)
Network Coordination
By visualizing the accounts as nodes in a network, we identified a high-density network across all 10
operations described in this report. The graph presented below is a projected bipartite network, where
2 nodes (accounts) share an edge if they have shared identical text content. The graph only includes
Empire Dragon accounts that uploaded 5 posts or more identified in 1 or more of the 10 operations
described in this report. High-density networks of accounts related by posting identical content
typically indicate a high level of coordination between accounts, which we assess are most likely
coordinated and operated by a single entity or organization.
Recorded Future® | www.recordedfuture.com | Distribution: Public, from Insikt Group
24
CYBER THREAT ANALYSIS
Figure 24: Network visualization of Empire Dragon accounts sharing identical content (Source: Recorded Future)
We also observed coordination between Empire Dragon accounts in sharing identical links and images.
Co-occurrence of link and media sharing is a marker of coordination often used in the study of
networks conducting coordinated inauthentic behavior (CIB).2
2 Meta defines CIB as “coordinated efforts to manipulate public debate for a strategic goal where fake accounts are central to the operation”.
Recorded Future® | www.recordedfuture.com | Distribution: Public, from Insikt Group
25
CYBER THREAT ANALYSIS
Figures 25 and 26: Network visualizations of Empire Dragon accounts sharing identical links (Top) and images (Bottom)
(Source: Recorded Future)
Recorded Future® | www.recordedfuture.com | Distribution: Public, from Insikt Group
26
CYBER THREAT ANALYSIS
Pattern-of-Life Analysis
Insikt Group’s analysis of Empire Dragon’s activity shows that the actor likely operates during Chinese
working hours. Timestamps associated with Empire Dragon activities follow PoL activity in GMT+8 (the
time zone for China, Eastern Russia, and Western Australia) as well as typical office hours, indicating
that this network is likely to be operated by humans with 9 to 5 shifts, lunch hours, and weekends.
Across both posting and account registration times, we identified a pattern of activity between 12 AM
and 3 AM GMT (8 AM and 11 AM in GMT+8), with a significant drop-off between 4 AM and 5 AM GMT
(12 PM and 1 PM in GMT+8), before resuming between 6 AM and 9 AM GMT (2 PM to 5 PM in GMT+8).
These are very likely correlated to typical working hours in China, and, from a network perspective, are
indicative of temporal coordination.
Figure 27: Heatmap of the number of Empire Dragon posts by the hour of the day and day of the week in the GMT timezone
(Source: Recorded Future)
Recorded Future® | www.recordedfuture.com | Distribution: Public, from Insikt Group
27
CYBER THREAT ANALYSIS
In addition to attributing posting and account registration times to Chinese office hours, we also
identified a pattern of activity consistent with office work across days of the week. Both account
registrations and posts decreased by nearly half on weekends, which is likely a result of overtime,
scheduled posts, or limited automated activity. The observed drop in activity on weekends supports our
assessment that actors operating the Empire Dragon network follow typical office hours and that the
network is likely human-operated rather than automated.
Content Timing
In 1 instance, Empire Dragon accounts posted content 6 days before very similar content was printed in
the Guangming Daily, a newspaper directly subordinate to the CCP Central Committee. While Empire
Dragon accounts began posting French-language versions of the article on March 23, 2023, the full
article in Chinese was printed in the Guangming Daily on March 29, 2023. The article is attributed to
Mao Junxiang, the “executive director of the Human Rights Research Center of Central South
University'', based in Changsha, China. We could not find other examples of this behavior — however,
narrative overlap is commonly observed across covert and overt sources, as covert networks like
Empire Dragon often amplify material or talking points published by overt state-controlled media
sources. In this case, we identified a rare example of a covert network taking the lead prior to
amplification by overt sources.
Figure 28: Forum post by an Empire Dragon account (Source: Moihua Forum — post removed)
Recorded Future® | www.recordedfuture.com | Distribution: Public, from Insikt Group
28
CYBER THREAT ANALYSIS
Figure 29: March 29, 2023, edition of the Guangming Daily, containing content amplified 6 days earlier by Empire Dragon
accounts (Source: Guangming Daily)
Activation Times
Empire Dragon has aggressively scaled its registration of social media accounts since July 2022 and
has been activating previously dormant accounts at a greater rate. Based on current average account
activation times, Empire Dragon operators have likely shifted to using a higher proportion of newly
registered accounts for immediate use in tactical campaigns when the need arises.
We calculated activation times as the difference between the account’s registration date and the
account’s first post date. Over time, we have observed a drastic decrease in activation times —
accounts created in 2021 had average activation times of close to 400 days, accounts created since
August 2022 had average activation times of fewer than 10 days. This is despite the aggressive
registration of accounts between July 2022 and February 2023, indicating that Empire Dragon is
registering more accounts than before, and using them on a much faster operational turnaround than in
the initial stages of the network.
Recorded Future® | www.recordedfuture.com | Distribution: Public, from Insikt Group
29
CYBER THREAT ANALYSIS
Figure 30: Average activation times (in days) and cumulated registrations (by number of accounts) of Empire Dragon accounts
(Source: Recorded Future)
Greater activation times before October 2021 likely indicate a focus on creating dormant “aged”
accounts for later use. Aged accounts provide a distinct advantage for conducting IO, as they tend to
pass checks from social media platforms; newly registered accounts that start posting a high volume of
content soon after activation typically get flagged by platforms and researchers, incurring a relatively
higher operational cost (related to persona creation and account acquisition, registration, or
verification) for the operators of covert IO networks. Because of this cost, the rate at which new
accounts are registered, participating in Empire Dragon operations, and subsequently taken down,
indicates that Empire Dragon is likely a well-resourced influence actor.
Overlap with Previously Attributed Networks
Lastly, we identified activity overlap between operations conducted by the Empire Dragon network and
campaigns previously attributed to Chinese state-aligned networks. This included the overlap in
accounts, content, narrative, and behavioral patterns listed above.
We observed Empire Dragon accounts taking part in a campaign targeting Taiwan during Nancy Pelosi’s
visit in August 2022. During this campaign, we observed Empire Dragon accounts sharing content first
Recorded Future® | www.recordedfuture.com | Distribution: Public, from Insikt Group
30
CYBER THREAT ANALYSIS
reported by Graphika in September 2022. For example, we observed Empire Dragon accounts sharing
posts using the string “mmexport1660466180684”, which Graphika also reported during the campaign
targeting Taiwan; they had assessed that this string likely originated from default filenames for content
downloaded from WeChat, a Chinese messaging platform. At the time, Graphika chose to keep the
campaign unattributed despite “limited connections to the Spamouflage network”, which the firm
considers as a distinct activity set to the network observed targeting Nancy Pelosi and Tsai Ing-Wen.
Spamouflage (or Spamouflage Dragon) is a “pro-Chinese propaganda network” covered by Graphika
since at least 2019.
Figure 31: Video shared by an Empire Dragon account using a title previously observed by Graphika (Source: Reddit)
We also observed a significant overlap between this network and DRAGONBRIDGE, a “pro-PRC
influence campaign” tracked by Mandiant since 2019. Our observations included narrative and technical
overlaps such as the amplification of Russian state narratives around the NordStream pipeline
sabotage, the attribution of Chinese cyber-espionage groups to the US government, and narratives
targeting Guo Wengui and Dr. Li-Meng Yan.
Empire Dragon’s IO accusing the US government of operating APT41 and other cyber-espionage groups
was also attributed to a “cyber-enabled influence operation linked to the Spamouflage network” by
ASPI in a report published in April 2023. Many of the TTPs, behavioral characteristics, and narratives
described in ASPI’s report overlap with Empire Dragon activity, including the use of inauthentic
accounts with Western personas, female profile pictures, and pattern-of-life analysis indicating activity
concentrated in GMT+8 office hours.
Empire Dragon activity also overlaps with a pro-PRC “inauthentic online network” reported by Nisos in
April 2023. The network was identified as spreading the same identical content as Empire Dragon
accounts to target the US government in the context of the Ninth Review of the BWC. Nisos
researchers also identified a post on a Chinese forum claiming that the specific operation was
Recorded Future® | www.recordedfuture.com | Distribution: Public, from Insikt Group
31
CYBER THREAT ANALYSIS
conducted by “military bloggers inside and outside the wall” with ties to the 50 Cent Party, a known
Chinese nationalist group accused of conducting domestic information operations. We were not able to
identify further evidence supporting this claim.
Lastly, one of the NGOs attacked by Empire Dragon, Safeguard Defenders, published its own findings
on accounts targeting the organization in May 2023 — which we attribute to Empire Dragon — in which
it described being targeted in a “prolonged campaign” since September 2022. Many of the TTPs
described in the report correspond to TTPs previously observed in other Empire Dragon operations,
including the use of inauthentic accounts with Western personas, embedded text in videos, and
copycat accounts imitating targets.
Tactics, Techniques, and Procedures
The TTPs used by Empire Dragon overlap with those reported by other vendors (see “Overlap With
Previously Attributed Clusters”, above). This includes the use of accounts with inauthentic identities,
including stolen profile pictures, account impersonation, usernames following similar naming
conventions, and the use of embedded text in videos (such as screenshots or screen recordings of PDF
documents). These techniques have helped us identify Empire Dragon as an inauthentic network
following our assessment of coordination above.
Inauthentic Accounts
While a majority of Empire Dragon accounts have been observed using default platform profile pictures
and non-descript images, we have also observed a significant portion of accounts using stolen profile
pictures. These images (which more often than not used female personas, a tactic previously covered
by Graphika) were often found on several Chinese-language image-sharing websites, TikTok, and other
Chinese-language social media platforms or blogs.
Figure 32: Profile picture used by an Empire Dragon inauthentic social media account (Source: Social Media)
Recorded Future® | www.recordedfuture.com | Distribution: Public, from Insikt Group
32
CYBER THREAT ANALYSIS
Figure 33: Reverse image search results for an Empire Dragon account (Source: Google)
Account Impersonation
On 2 separate occasions, security researchers and targeted entities identified coordinated campaigns
impersonating targets’ social media accounts, including Intrusion Truth and Safeguard Defenders.
These accounts typically used handles typosquatting targets’ legitimate handles, stolen profile pictures,
and identical descriptions to impersonate targets, which we assess were attempts at diverting social
media traffic to these entities, both of whom are critical of the Chinese government.
Figure 34: Security researchers’ identification of a suspected impersonation campaign targeting Intrusion Truth
(Source: Social Media)
Recorded Future® | www.recordedfuture.com | Distribution: Public, from Insikt Group
33
CYBER THREAT ANALYSIS
Naming Conventions
We also identified early groups of Empire Dragon accounts with similar naming conventions, which often
shared other indicators such as the accounts’ registration dates and first post dates. Groups of
accounts following similar naming conventions may indicate coordinated behavior. However, this is one
indicator among many to consider when determining the inauthenticity of any given network.
For example, the cluster below of 6 accounts observed engaging in Empire Dragon operations all follow
a similar naming convention (*8237), with several being nearly identical (ailawei8327, aisawei8327, and
ainisiweier8237). All were registered on a single platform in 3 days between March 22 and 25, 2021.
Although some of these accounts may have been registered on different days, 5 of these accounts
authored posts for the first time on the same date a month later, on April 20, 2021.
Username
Account Creation Date
First Post Date
feinier8327
03-22-2021
03-25-2021
qiyiqiyi8327
03-23-2021
04-20-2021
ailawei8327
03-25-2021
04-20-2021
aisawei8327
03-25-2021
04-20-2021
ainisiweier8327
03-25-2021
04-20-2021
xuezhitianshi8327
03-25-2021
04-20-2021
Table 3: Account registration data following similar naming conventions (Source: Recorded Future)
Embedded Text in Videos
We identified several cases of Empire Dragon-related content being embedded as text in videos, which
we assess is likely an attempt at evading detection. The text, which was often identical to content
amplified by accounts on other platforms, was often featured as part of slideshows, or even as part of
screen recordings of an operator scrolling through a PDF file.
Recorded Future® | www.recordedfuture.com | Distribution: Public, from Insikt Group
34
CYBER THREAT ANALYSIS
Figure 35: YouTube video shared by Empire Dragon accounts (Source: YouTube — page removed)
Figure 36: YouTube video shared by Empire Dragon accounts (Source: YouTube — page removed)
Recorded Future® | www.recordedfuture.com | Distribution: Public, from Insikt Group
35
CYBER THREAT ANALYSIS
Outlook
Empire Dragon’s shift toward tactical information operations likely demonstrates increased intent from
Chinese government-aligned influence actors to use covert IO as an incisive tool to manipulate public
opinion on current events, while retaining strategic operations targeting long-term adversaries of the
state. Insikt Group assesses that this very likely signals the Chinese government’s intent to continue
scaling its use of coordinated inauthentic networks to amplify conspiracy theories, attack opponents,
and discredit critics and that it will likely engage in covert information operations in the months leading
up to the 2024 Taiwan and US presidential elections. These covert efforts will almost certainly be
supported by China’s well-established ecosystem of overt communications channels, which leverages
state media and civil servants’ social media presence. Likely targets include specific government
departments, individual political leaders, international organizations, and NGOs.
The narrative convergence in IO between Russian and Chinese government-aligned influence actors
observed in recent information operations conducted by Empire Dragon suggests that, despite different
geopolitical objectives, we are observing a wider convergence in overt and covert influence activity
from both countries. Covert information operations are the latest tool used by Chinese
government-aligned influence actors to amplify mutually beneficial narratives in the face of US-led
international governance and the enlargement of NATO following the Russian invasion of Ukraine.
Evidence presented in this report suggests that, beyond narratives, this convergence is also taking
place at a tactical level, with an increased emphasis on tactical operations reacting to geopolitical
events, amplifying emerging conspiracy theories, attacking international organizations, and co-opting
Western “useful idiots'' and fringe political groups to advance narratives undermining the US and
promoting China. Chinese government-aligned networks like Empire Dragon have likely taken notes
from their Russian counterparts and will more probably than not adopt other tactics seeing current use
by Russian IO.
Empire Dragon’s operations have generated very low levels of organic engagement by targeted
audiences, which we attribute to limited investment or interest in developing quality content, the
obvious recycling of identical image and text content, low-quality translations across languages, and a
failure to covertly seed content using established influencers or sources. This impotence is likely to
push China to look at how it can improve its playbook for using coordinated inauthentic networks as an
effective tool to shape international discourse to its benefit, a topic of strategic importance to the CCP.
As a result, we assess that the actors behind the network are likely in the process of iterating its TTPs
while simultaneously scaling its operations and maintaining operational tempo. Content quality is likely
to be improved with the advent of multilingual large language models (LLMs) and advanced image
generation models, meaning that we will almost certainly witness an improvement in Western
audiences’ engagement with Chinese state-aligned IO despite linguistic and cultural barriers. As per
previous Insikt Group findings, the Chinese government will also likely continue tailoring its influence
efforts to targeted audiences using data analytics, group segmentation, and other “precise
communication” techniques.
Recorded Future® | www.recordedfuture.com | Distribution: Public, from Insikt Group
36
CYBER THREAT ANALYSIS
About Insikt Group®
Recorded Future’s Insikt Group, the company’s threat research division, comprises analysts and security researchers with deep government, law
enforcement, military, and intelligence agency experience. Their mission is to produce intelligence that reduces risk for clients, enables tangible
outcomes, and prevents business disruption.
About Recorded Future
Recorded Future is the world’s largest threat intelligence company. Recorded Future’s Intelligence Cloud provides end-to-end intelligence across
adversaries, infrastructure, and targets. Indexing the internet across the open web, dark web, and technical sources, Recorded Future provides
real-time visibility into an expanding attack surface and threat landscape, empowering clients to act with speed and confidence to reduce risk
and securely drive business forward. Headquartered in Boston with offices and employees around the world, Recorded Future works with over
1,700 businesses and government organizations across more than 75 countries to provide real-time, unbiased and actionable intelligence. Learn
more at recordedfuture.com.
Recorded Future® | www.recordedfuture.com | Distribution: Public, from Insikt Group
37
