 
 
 
BfV CYBER INSIGHT 
The i-Soon-Leaks: Industrialization of Cyber Espionage 
Cologne, 01 August 2024 
Part 1: Organization and methods of   
 
 
i-Soon APT units 
BfV CYBER INSIGHT 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bundesamt für Verfassungsschutz | CYBER INSIGHT  
The i-Soon-Leaks, part 1: Organization and methods of i-Soon APT units 
1 
The i-Soon-Leaks: Industrialization of Cyber Espionage 
 
Part 1: Organization and methods of i-Soon APT units 
 
 
Table of Contents 
1. 
Introduction .......................................................................................................... 2 
2. 
The company ....................................................................................................... 3 
3. 
Organization and methods .................................................................................. 3 
4. 
i-Soon and the Chinese cyber ecosystem ........................................................... 6 
5. 
Insight into the Chinese cyber landscape ............................................................ 8 
 
 
 
BfV CYBER INSIGHT 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bundesamt für Verfassungsschutz | CYBER INSIGHT  
The i-Soon-Leaks, part 1: Organization and methods of i-Soon APT units 
2 
1. Introduction 
On February 16th 2024 a data set was leaked on the GitHub1 developer platform that 
provides a rare insight into China's methods of conducting hacking operations world-
wide. The internal documents show the extent of cooperation between the Chinese 
cybersecurity company i-Soon and the Chinese government and intelligence services. 
In four consecutive reports BfV examines the leak in detail and describes the level of 
industrialization of cyber espionage activities by privately organized companies, who 
carry out cyber-attacks for state entities. 
The leak includes over 570 files, images, and chat messages in Chinese, including: 
• a presentation on the skills and services of i-Soon, 
• lists of employees, product information/services, contract books and information 
on cyber operations and target entities, 
• screenshots of presumably captured data and 
• log files of compromised telecommunications service providers in Asia. 
The leaked documents do not contain any indication of affected entities in Germany, 
however, the analysis offers an insight into the inner workings of private hacker com-
panies and providers of malicious software and their close ties to the Chinese state. It 
also lays bare how APT2 groups operate and how government agencies leverage 
them.3 
The BfV’s evaluation of the leaked data is presented in a total of four reports, which 
are structured as follows: 
• Organization and methods of i-Soon APT units (part 1, this report), 
• Connections of i-Soon to the Chinese security apparatus (part 2), 
• Affected countries and specific targets of i-Soon (part 3), 
• Offered products and i-Soon customers (part 4). 
                                            
1 
GitHub is an online software development and version management service for software projects. 
2 
Advanced Persistent Threats (APT) denotes complex and targeted threats that target one or a specific group 
of victims. They are usually comprised of resource-intensive, government-controlled cyber-attacker groups. 
The attacks themselves are often elaborately prepared by the attackers, are sophisticated ("advanced") and 
can continue over a long period of time (“persistent”). 
3 
For illustration purposes, various screenshots from the leak were translated and included in this report. 
BfV CYBER INSIGHT 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bundesamt für Verfassungsschutz | CYBER INSIGHT  
The i-Soon-Leaks, part 1: Organization and methods of i-Soon APT units 
3 
2. The company 
According to media reports, i-Soon was founded in 2010 and is headquartered in 
Shanghai. It has offices in 32 other provinces, cities and autonomous regions in China.4 
The description on the company‘s homepage portrays i-Soon as a cyber security com-
pany, that is tasked with defending cyber-attacks against the Chinese government and 
ensuring the security of customer networks. The company founder is reportedly a for-
mer member of the Green Corps – a part of China's “patriotic” hacker scene. Over the 
years, members of the scene have formed a comprehensive network of cybersecurity 
firms that also work on behalf of Chinese security services and government institutions. 
 
3. Organization and methods 
The data sets uploaded to GitHub include a presentation on i-Soon's capabilities and 
services. This gives a rare insight into the organization itself and the relationship with 
the cybersecurity company's customer base. Among other things, the presentation pro-
motes company-organised APT units, which are capable of carrying out several sim-
ultaneous cyber campaigns overseas for their clients. Accordingly, the teams suppos-
edly consist of more than 70 people, organized in three groups: a “security research 
team”, three “penetration teams” and a “basic support team" (see Figure 1). 
                                            
4 
Cf. "Ist das Chinas Snowden-Moment?“ of 23.02.2024, in: www .spiegel.de; last visited on 28.06.2024. 
Figure 1: i-Soon APT-teams 
BfV CYBER INSIGHT 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bundesamt für Verfassungsschutz | CYBER INSIGHT  
The i-Soon-Leaks, part 1: Organization and methods of i-Soon APT units 
4 
The terms chosen point towards a highly specialized and professional process for car-
rying out cyber-attacks. The “security research team” is probably tasked with recon-
naissance work beforehand. The three “penetration teams” can then use this infor-
mation for a targeted approach. The teams are prepared to infiltrate the security sys-
tems of their selected targets and to carry out previously defined objectives and exfil-
trate desired information. The "basic support team" presumably deals with all other 
technical issues that occur during an operation. 
In addition to organizational demarcations, i-Soon categorizes the capabilities of its 
APT unit into three service areas: 
• “target penetration services”, 
• “battle support services” and 
• “intelligence services”. 
Possible targets of the “target penetration services” are listed as networks of govern-
ment organizations and authorities, including their intranet networks. Also, the procure-
ment of file server permissions and login information of overseas government person-
nel (see Figure 2) is mentioned. In addition to the government sector, i-Soon also ad-
vertises “processing” the telecommunications sector as well as energy, transportation 
and medical networks (some of which are critical infrastructure). 
 
Figure 2: services on offer 
BfV CYBER INSIGHT 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bundesamt für Verfassungsschutz | CYBER INSIGHT  
The i-Soon-Leaks, part 1: Organization and methods of i-Soon APT units 
5 
The services offered by i-Soon coincide with the alleged interests of state-controlled 
Chinese cyber-actors. These include gaining access to information on foreign, security 
and economic policy through the intrusion of networks of governmental organizations. 
In addition to the listed services, the published data also provides details on how i-
Soon internally prepares hacking campaigns (see Figure 3): 
 
• The first step describes the target selection and the definition of goals based on 
customer specifications. If the targets are of high-quality and well-secured, 
i-Soon will provide its clients with necessary insider knowledge, for example the 
targets’ IT security standards. Based on the information and possible attack 
vectors identified, i-Soon will then prepare a preliminary deployment plan. 
• In the second step, i-Soon assembles the APT teams in a demand-oriented 
manner. The toolset is then chosen or specifically developed. This dynamic and 
demand-oriented approach suggests that i-Soon is capable of developing and 
combining different techniques, tactics and procedures (TTPs) in order to 
achieve maximum efficiency. 
Figure 3: process of a i-Soon hacking campaign (technical process) 
BfV CYBER INSIGHT 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bundesamt für Verfassungsschutz | CYBER INSIGHT  
The i-Soon-Leaks, part 1: Organization and methods of i-Soon APT units 
6 
• The third step takes place in the target systems themselves: the outlined data 
is acquired and, if necessary, further useful information is identified. 
• The fourth step comprises of backend support for the client. This may include 
further technical assistance as well as other unspecified support in regard to the 
further case handling. 
The described methods are confirmed by the lists of products and services, contract 
books, cyber operations and target entities contained in the leaked data. Among other 
things, these lists include client-set targets (cf. Figure 4), toolsets offered by i-Soon, 
the status of respective cyber operations as well as information on the company’s tar-
get achievements. 
 
4. i-Soon and the Chinese cyber ecosystem 
By evaluating the text files contained in the leaked data, further insight into the func-
tioning of the company can be gained. The chat protocols provide a glimpse of i-Soon's 
business-oriented participation in Chinas highly professional cyber ecosystem.5 They 
show that i-Soon not only acts on behalf of its cooperation partners, but that the com-
pany conducts cyber operations on its own initiative or at least goes beyond contrac-
tually agreed guidelines by gathering further data within an ongoing cyber-operation – 
                                            
5 
Cyber ecosystem describes the involvement of various sectors in state-based cyber espionage activities. 
These include entities in education and research, services and product development, which support Chinese 
intelligence services with their respective portfolio. Cooperation can take place either on a voluntary basis or 
can be enforced in accordance with existing statutory regulations. 
Figure 4: contractual provisions 
BfV CYBER INSIGHT 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bundesamt für Verfassungsschutz | CYBER INSIGHT  
The i-Soon-Leaks, part 1: Organization and methods of i-Soon APT units 
7 
presumably in order to later sell the surplus information to other clients for profit. The 
transcripts contain, among other things, a conversation about information generated 
by i-Soon concerning the NATO Secretary General. Clients were offered an excerpt of 
data for purchase, but they signaled disinterest. 
 
Furthermore, i-Soon seems involved in the procurement of login data on the black 
market, presumably to execute client contracts with the acquired information. One con-
crete example refers to a discussion about the increased cost for access data to com-
puter networks of the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI).  
 
Figure 5: chat dealing with allegedly stolen NATO data 
Figure 6: chat concerning FBI credentials 
BfV CYBER INSIGHT 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bundesamt für Verfassungsschutz | CYBER INSIGHT  
The i-Soon-Leaks, part 1: Organization and methods of i-Soon APT units 
8 
On the basis of the evaluated chat protocols, a highly contested cyber market is pic-
tured: the wages of the employees are low and stagnant, the business competition is 
described as intense and it is difficult to find a market for exploited data. Also, there 
are problems finding qualified staff. Attempts are made to attract young talent through 
the cooperation with local universities as well as through appearances and participa-
tion in Chinese cybersecurity competitions. 
 
5. Insight into the Chinese cyber landscape 
In their entirety, the leaked data provides a unique insight into the complex structure 
and scale of China's cyber ecosystem. Although i-Soon is only a single, medium-sized 
company within an established and flourishing industry in China, it is still able to con-
duct numerous operations simultaneously with its APT units. In this regard, the tech-
nical level of the outfit and to what extent the industry as a whole operates can only be 
assumed. Companies, like i-Soon, partly maintain numerous other subcontractors, 
which in turn are specialized in specific fields of work such as software development, 
hardware development, infrastructure deployment, malware development and APT 
services. 
However, what the i-Soon-leaks also show is an unregulated market, in which individ-
ual actors can apparently act without control. One first measure taken by the Chinese 
government in response to the data leak was to extend the current legal statutes: now 
data concerning government contracts is classified as a state secret. 
In the further course of reporting on the i-Soon-leaks, BfV examines the links to the 
Chinese security apparatus (part 2), reports on known targets and attack vectors of the 
APT-like units of i-Soon (part 3) and focusses on clients and products of i-Soon 
(part 4). 
 
 
BfV CYBER INSIGHT 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bundesamt für Verfassungsschutz | CYBER INSIGHT  
The i-Soon-Leaks, part 1: Organization and methods of i-Soon APT units 
9 
 
 
 
 
Publication information 
 
Published by 
Bundesamt für Verfassungsschutz 
Abteilung 4 
Merianstraße 100 
50765 Köln 
poststelle@bfv.bund.de  
www.verfassungsschutz.de 
Tel.: +49 (0) 228/99 792-0 
Fax: +49 (0) 228/99 792-2600 
Image credits 
cover: BfV, ai-generated 
Date of Information 
July 2024 
