1/9
www.reversemode.com /2022/03/viasat-incident-from-speculation-to.html
Reversemode
VIASAT incident: from speculation to technical details.
34 days after the incident, yesterday Viasat published a statement providing some technical details about
the attack that affected tens of thousands of its SATCOM terminals. Also yesterday, I eventually had
access to two Surfbeam2 modems: one was targeted during the attack and the other was in a working
condition. Thank you so much to the person who disinterestedly donated the attacked modem.
I've been closely covering this issue since the beginning, providing a plausible theory based on the
information that was available at that time, and my experience in this field. Actually, it seems that this
theory was pretty close to what really happened.
2/9
Fortunately, now we can move from just pure speculation into something more tangible, so I dumped the
flash memory for both modems (Spansion S29GL256P90TFCR2) and the differences were pretty clear.
In the following picture you can see 'attacked1.bin', which belongs to the targeted modem and
'fw_fixed.bin', coming from the modem in working conditions.
A destructive pattern, that corrupted the flash memory rendering the SATCOM modems inoperable, can
be observed on the left, confirming what Viasat stated yesterday. 
After verifying the destructive attack, I'm now statically analyzing the firmware extracted from the 'clean'
modem. Firmware version is 3.7.3.10.9.
Besides talking about a 'management network' and 'legitimate management commands', Viasat did not
provide any specific details about this. In my previous blog post I introduced the theory that probably
'TR069' was the involved management protocol.
Obviously, I can't completely confirm this scenario but I'll try to elaborate my reasoning.
Attacking via a management protocol
I think there are two main options: either the attackers abused a MAC management protocol or an
application layer one.
For the MAC case ('ut_mac' binary), in general terms, the attackers would have required an even more
privileged access to either the NOC or the Ground Stations, probably in a persistent way via malware. I
guess that this kind of privileged access would have been enough to limit the attack to Ukraine, instead of
knocking out half Europe. As a result, I'm inclined to think this was not the case.
On the other hand, a 'misconfigured VPN' that enabled the attackers to reach the 'management segment'
and execute 'commands' seems to be more related to an application layer management protocol: SNMP
or TR069.
SNMP 
3/9
An initial analysis of 'vsatSb2Ut.so' shows that the implemented MIB does not seem to provide the
required functionality to perform this kind of attack. 
I would initially discard this option.
TR069
As suggested in the previous blog post, the Surfbeam2 modems are deployed with the Axiros'
AXACT client.  The nature of the operations performed by TR069 clients makes them very convenient for
an attack of this type.
4/9
        cwmpdefault.xml
By reverse engineering the 'cwmpclient' binary it is possible to recover the Viasat's TR069 data model,
analyze how it has been implemented as well as  how it communicates with other components to perform
the required actions (via IPC queues). 
Unfortunately, it does not look good. So far, I would highlight two issues:
1. New firmware is not properly validated after being downloaded by the TR069 client. This means that
the new firmware does not contain a cryptographically secure signature.  
                                            ...
'swValidate' is implemented in 'ut_mac' binary, which merely validates a CRC.
5/9
2. * Updated * 
A deeper look at the 'ut_app_execute_operation' function revealed that it is implementing a functionality
that enables the ACS to install (upload and run) arbitrary binaries on the modem, without requiring either
a signature verification or a complete firmware upgrade. 
This functionality seems to match both the Viasat statement as well as the approach to deploy the 
'AcidRain' wiper described by SentinelOne. 
6/9
     '/usr/bin/app_img_dwnid'
7/9
Additionally, there are multiple command injection vulnerabilities that can be trivially exploited from a
malicious ACS (or someone with the same privileged position in the network), i.e
'ut_app_execute_operation' for the custom 'X_VIASAT-COM_app' object ('cwmpclient')
8/9
Conclusion
There are similarities between these issues and the approach followed by the attackers in the Viasat
incident, but I am not implying that these vulnerabilities were actually abused by the attackers. However,
the security posture of the Surfbeam2 firmware does not look good. 
Hopefully these vulnerabilities are no longer present in the newest Viasat firmware, otherwise that would
be a problem...
There are several unknowns yet to be resolved.
1. How the initial compromise of the VPN appliance worked. Did the attackers have valid credentials
(maybe stolen from either Skylogic or its partners) or they exploited a known vulnerability (assuming an
0day doesn't match a 'misconfigured VPN appliance' explanation )? 
2. How exactly the attack propagated to other countries, lasting for several hours. One of the affected
persons I talked to got his modem knocked out around 9:00 am (GMT+1), several hours after the initial
attack.
9/9
3. Before the destructive payload was executed, there was any other kind of malicious code running in
the modems for a short period of time? Sentinelone published a very interesting research on 'AcidRain', a
wiper that is able to generate the same destructive pattern observed in the modem's flash memory. 
Coincidentally, this wiper also has similarities with 'VPNfilter' malware.
4. Did the compromise of the management segment involve additional attacks besides the VPN issue?
Unfortunately these technical questions can only be answered by people with an insider knowledge. Let's
see if Viasat is willing to provide further details on this case.
