IN THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT 
FOR THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA 
Holding a Criminal Term 
Case: 1:20-cr-00158 
Grand Jury Sworn in on May 7, 2019 
Assigned To : Mehta, Amit P. 
As.sign. Dale : 8/1112020 
Description: INDICTIMEINT (B) 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
CRIMINAL NO. case Related t.o 1I9•cr-274 (APM) 
v. 
GRAND JURY ORIGINAL 
JIANG LIZHI, 
VIOLATIONS: 
18 U.S.C. § 1962(d) 
A/K/Asft.ft~, 
(Racketeering Conspiracy) 
QIANCHUAN, 
18 u.s.c. § 371 
(Conspiracy) 
A/K/A~JII, 
18 U.S.C. § 1028(a)(7) 
FUQIANG, 
(Identity Theft) 
A/K/A{,HI, 
18 U.S.C. § 1028A 
(Aggravated Identity Theft) 
Defendants. 
18 U.S.C. § 1029(a)(2) 
(Access Device Fraud) 
18 U.S.C. § 1030(a)(2)(C), (b), (c)(2)(B) 
(Obtaining Information By Unauthorized 
Access To Protected Computers) 
18 U.S.C. § 1030(a)(5)(A), (b), (c)(4)(B) 
(Intentionally Causing Damage To 
Protected Computers) 
18 U.S.C. § 1030(a)(7)(C), (b), (c)(3)(A) 
(Threatening to Damage a Protected 
Computer) 
18 U.S.C. § 1956(a)(2)(A) 
(Money Laundering) 
Criminal Forfeiture: 
18 U.S.C. § 981(a)(l)(C); 18 U.S.C. 
§ 982(a)(2); 18 U.S.C. § 1030(i) and G); 18 
U.S.C. § 1963; 28 U.S.C. § 246l(c); 21 
u.s.c § 853(p). 
1 
INDICTMENT 
The Grand Jury charges: 
At all times relevant to this Indictment: 
INTRODUCTION 
1. 
Defendant JIANG LIZHI ("JIANG"), also known as "5ji:fL;t-" and "Blackfox," 
was a resident and citizen of the People's Republic of China ("the PRC"), who had no residence 
or last known residence in the United States . 
• 
ft 
2. 
Defendant QIAN CHUAN ("QIAN"), also known as "i~Jll" and "Squall," was a 
resident and citizen ofthe PRC, who had no residence or last known residence in the United States . 
.. 
2 
3. 
Defendant FU QIANG ("FU"), also known as "{,:f-5.i" and "StandNY," was a 
resident and citizen ofthe PRC, who had no residence or last known residence in the United States. 
4. 
Since about May 2014, JIANG, QIAN, and FU have worked for, and been officers 
of, Chengdu 404 Network Technology Co., Ltd. ("CHENGDU 404"), a company registered in the 
PRC and based in Chengdu, Sichuan Province. QIAN has been President of CHENGDU 404; 
JIANG has been Vice President for the Technical Department; and FU has been Manager for Big 
Data Development. 
5. 
CHENGDU 404 has publicly described itself as a network security company, 
composed of elite "white hat" hackers, which provided defensive and counter-offensive network 
security services and data analytics services, including penetration testing, password recovery 
services, "mobile device forensics," and other services. The company's website boasted about its 
"patriotic spirit" and claimed that its customers include "public security, military, and military 
enterprises." The CHENGDU 404 front desk is pictured below. 
3 
6. 
However, in addition to any purported "white hat" or defensive network security 
services which it provided, CHENGDU 404 was also responsible for "offensive" network security 
operations. That is to say, CHENGDU 404 employees and officers including JIANG, QIAN, and 
FU committed, and conspired to commit, criminal computer intrusion offenses targeting computer 
networks around the world, including, and as described further herein, over 100 victim companies, 
organizations, and individuals in the United States and around the world, including in South Korea, 
Japan, India, Taiwan, Hong Kong, Malaysia, Vietnam, India, Pakistan, Australia, the United 
Kingdom, Chile, Indonesia, Singapore, and Thailand. CHENGDU 404 employees and officers 
including JIANG, QIAN, and FU conspired to commit those computer intrusions, and committed 
those computer intrusions, by various fraudulent means, installing malware on protected 
computers, and obtaining, using, maintaining, and communicating with computer and internet 
infrastructure located in the United States or obtained from commercial providers in the United 
States. The CHENGDU 404 infrastructure included electronic communications accounts (e.g., e­
mail accounts), social media accounts, computer servers, domain names, computer software, and 
other items. 
4 
7. 
JIANG, QIAN, and FU conducted, supported, and conspired to conduct computer 
intrusions using CHENGDU 404 resources, and by conducting CHENGDU 404 affairs through a 
pattern ofillegal activity, including identity theft, access device fraud, computer fraud, wire fraud, 
and money laundering, and related criminal activity. QIAN led these efforts as the President of 
CHENGDU 404, JIANG was a hacker and manager in the Technical Department, and FU was a 
business manager and a manager for "big data" analytics, which could be used, among other things, 
to analyze an~ exploit data obtained through hacking - and thus serve as a means of identifying 
additional targets, providing actionable information, and maximizing the value of stolen data. 
Defendants' Backgrounds 
8. 
JIANG has been involved with professional computer hacking since at least 2007, 
when he worked for another PRC-based company that, between 2008 and 2010, advertised on its 
website that it had established an "offensive hacking group," and described some of its clients as 
"government agencies." JIANG worked at the company between at least 2007 and 2011. The 
same company employed other computer hackers who collaborated with JIANG, including Zhang 
Haoran, also known as *~Pt, who worked at the company between 2008 and 2014, and Tan 
Dailin, also known as ifiG*, who worked at the company in at least 2011. 
9. 
JIANG's professional history includes criminal computer hacking and 
collaborating with professional computer hackers such as Zhang Haoran and Tan Dailin, but 
including others as well. For example, in November 2012, in a discussion with another hacker, 
JIANG referred to criminal computer hacking as "his old business." JIANG told his associate that 
he had been using phishing websites and spear-phishing e-mails, and was looking to improve his 
computer hacking skills related to the Linux operating system. The criminal nature of JIANG's 
activities is likewise reflected in June 2012 communications with an associate who was also a 
5 
computer hacker, and who was concerned about "0a" ("Gong A"), which is short for 0~ ("Gong 
An"), the PRC Ministry of Public Security. JIANG advised his associate not to "touch domestic 
stuff anymore." JIANG's associate agreed, explaining that, if he were to commit such "a crime, 
[he] couldn't even get out of Sichuan [Province in the PRC]." JIANG boasted that he was "the 
classic example of maintaining low key," and claimed that he was "very close" with the "GA", 
meaning the PRC Ministry of State Security. JIANG and his associate agreed that JIANG's 
working relationship with the Ministry of State Security provided JIANG protection, because that 
type of association with the Ministry of State Security provided such protection, including from 
the Ministry of Public Security, "unless something very big happens." 
10. 
QIAN's professional history also includes projects supporting the Chinese 
government. For example, in 2010, in connection with a software development project developed 
for the "Chengdu National Secrecy Bureau," QIAN provided an associate with a mock-up of the 
user-interface for software which was designed as a "Confidential Information Security Cleanin~ 
Tool" to wipe confidential information from digital media. The mock-up is pictured below: 
6 
tt•fl~tef8atijlm• V2.o 
X"8 
2010032O.txt 
••n•~~m~~•~•
~fMtll 
,b ;t 
Http://www.cdflxln.cn 
11. 
Since at least 2012, JIANG and QIAN have been collaborating together. Since that 
time, QIAN and JIANG have conducted criminal computer hacking activity, together and with 
others known and unknown to the Grand Jury, which has in some instances been tracked by 
cybersecurity professionals under the threat group labels "APT41," "Barium," "Winnti," "Wicked 
Panda," and "Wicked Spider." 
QIAN and JIANG have also collaborated with, and used 
overlapping tactics, techniques, procedures, and malware with, other computer hackers, including 
Zhang Haoran and Tan Dailin, whose activities have been tracked under those same threat group 
labels. 
QIAN, JIANG, and those other computer hackers carried out their hacking using 
specialized malware, such as malware that ·cybersecurity experts named "PlugX/Fast," 
"Winnti/Pasteboy," "Shadowpad," "Barlaiy/Poison Plug," and "Crosswalk/ProxIP." 
12. 
During 2012 and 2013, when Winnti malware was relatively new and largely 
unknown to cyber security researchers, QIAN communicated with and worked with other criminal 
computer hackers on various malicious tools, including malware controller software named 
7 
"treadstone." The "treadstone" malware controller software was designed to work with Winnti 
malware which, at the time, was used only by a small group of hackers - hackers such as QIAN 
and JIANG, and others they associated with. 
13. 
FU has been working closely with JIANG since at least 2008, and worked with 
JIANG at multiple internet and video game related companies. FU has been working with QIAN 
and JIANG together since at least 2013. Before joining CHENGDU 404, FU described himself as 
a skilled programmer and developer, with expertise in developing search applications, including 
search applications which helped monitor and report about "internet sentiment." 
OVERVIEW OF THE CONDUCT 
14. 
Between about May 2014 and about August 2020, JIANG, QIAN, and FU, together 
and with others known and unknown to the Grand Jury ( collectively referred to here as "the 
conspirators"), conspired to commit a sprawling array of computer intrusions targeting protected 
computers belonging to hospitality, video game, technology and telecommunications companies, 
research universities, non-governmental organizations, and other organizations around the world, 
including in the United States and the District of Columbia. 
15. 
The conspirators used those intrusions to facilitate the theft ofsource code, software 
code signing certificates, customer account data, and personally identifiable information ( or "PII"), 
and to carry out sophisticated "supply chain" attacks, in which a computer intrusion at one 
company was used to as a means ofcqmpromising protected computers belonging to its customers. 
16. 
The conspirators also used those intrusions to facilitate other criminal schemes, 
including ransomware schemes and "crypto-jacking" schemes. 
17. 
The ransom ware schemes were extortion schemes, in which the conspirators gained 
access to protected computers, encrypted data stored on those computers, and thereby rendered 
that data inaccessible to those computers' owners. The conspirators would then send a ransom 
8 
demand claiming that ifthe victim sent a ransom payment to a designated account, the data would 
be decrypted. 
18. 
The "crypto-jacking" schemes were schemes to gam unauthorized access to 
thousands of protected computers at a time, and then to use those compromised machines by 
hijacking their computing power to generate crypto-currency through a process known as "crypto­
mining." 
19. 
The underlying common goal ofthe conspiracy was to obtain commercial success 
for CHENGDU 404 - and personal financial gain for members of the conspiracy - through 
computer intrusions targeting protected computers. 
20. 
The conspirators obtained initial unauthorized access to protected computers using 
a variety ofmeans, including spear phishing e-mail messages, network compromises using exploit 
code to compromise vulnerable software, and supply chain attacks. The conspirators typically 
sought to convert their initial access into long-term, persistent access using several methods, 
including by installing, on compromised computers, sophisticated Remote Access Trojan ("RAT") 
malware, "webshells" which provided unauthorized access to victim networks through 
co~promised web servers, and unauthorized Virtual Private Network ("VPN") software. 
21. 
The conspirators used command-and-control servers ("C2 Servers") to control their 
malware and communicate with compromis~d protected computers. In some cases, they used 
malware that communicated with those C2 Servers by seeking contact with pre-selected domain 
names, which cybersecurity professionals refer to as command-and-control domains ("C2 
Domains"). The conspirators also used more advanced tradecraft, including command-and-control 
web pages which the conspirators created using legitimate websites, and which cybersecurity 
professionals refer to as "C2 Dead Drops." These web pages, including "profile" pages on 
9 
legitimate websites, were surreptitiously encoded with the internet protocol ("IP") addresses of C2 
Servers. 
22. 
The conspirators' tradecraft also included other sophisticated methods, including 
stolen code signing certificates used to cryptographically "sign" malware, which fraudulently 
represented malware to be legitimate software authored by legitimate software providers. Their 
tradecraft also included supply chain attacks carried out using a variety of advanced techniques, 
including the use of encrypted malicious payloads that would only be decrypted if they were 
installed on computers operated by high-priority, specifically designated victims. 
23. 
The conspirators' tradecraft typically included efforts to obtain and expand their 
unauthorized access by stealing means of identification and access devices, including login 
credentials, belonging to individuals who had administrative access to victim computer networks. 
The conspirators were then able to use their expanded access to accomplish the goals of the 
intrusion, such as the theft of data, additional supply chain attacks, ransomware attacks, or crypto-
jacking schemes. 
24. 
In or about 2019 and 2020, the conspirators also conducted a massive campaign to 
rapidly exploit publicly identified security vulnerabilities. This technique allowed the conspirators 
to hack into protected computers using publicly available exploit code - without using their own 
distinctive or identifying malware - so long as the conspirators acted before victim companies 
updated their systems. This campaign included the use of security vulnerabilities such as CVE~ 
2019-19781, CVE-2019-11510, CVE-2019-16920, CVE-2019-16278, CVE-2019-1652/CVE­
2019-1653, and CVE-2020-10189. These compromises typically resulted in the installation of 
widely-available RAT malware which was not uniquely used by the conspirators. 
25. 
The conspirators executed the conspiracy using infrastructure ofthe type described 
in Paragraphs 6 and 21 in the United States, Europe, the PRC, and elsewhere in Asia and the world. 
10 
The conspirators obtained that infrastructure for purposes of their computer hacking offenses, and 
they obtained it using, among other things, payments from outside of the United States, which 
were made to providers inside the United States. 
COMPUTER INTRUSION ACTIVITY 
ECS #1 Supply Chain Attack 
26. 
ECS #1 was an electronic communications services provider, which was based in 
Europe and which operated protected computers in Europe, the United States, and elsewhere 
' 
around the world. ECS #1 developed and distributed software that was popular among individuals, 
businesses, and a variety of other organizations. 
27. 
Beginning no later than June 2015, the conspirators installed malware on protected 
computers belonging to ECS #1 and thereby caused ECS #1 computers to communicate with HOP 
POINT ONE, a C2 Server in California. The conspirators maintained access to ECS #1 protected 
computers through at least February 2017, including through the installation and use of 
Winnti/Pasteboy malware. 
28. 
Between about June 2015 and about February 2017, the conspirators compromised 
dozens of protected computers belonging to ECS #1. The conspirators used their unauthorized 
access to ECS #1 computers to view source code and code-signing certificates belonging to ECS 
#1, and obtained other valuable business and personal information from protected computers 
belonging to ECS #1, including login credentials for customer accounts provided by ECS #1. 
29. 
The conspirators subsequently used that information to gain unauthorized access to 
accounts, and then the networks, of ECS #1 customers, which consisted of a broad range of 
organizations, including, as examples, MANUFACTURER #2 and MEDICAL PROVIDER #3. 
30. 
MANUFACTURER #2 was a hardware manufacturer based in the United States, 
which operated protected computers in California and elsewhere. 
MANUFACTURER #2 
11 
specialized in high-end hardware for organizations in the United States and elsewhere around the 
world. 
31. 
On or about January 12, 201 7, the conspirators gained unauthorized access to an 
ECS #1 account assigned to MANUFACTURER #2. The conspirators exploited that access to 
compromise MANUFACTURER #2's protected computers. 
The conspirators installed 
Winnti/Pasteboy and Barlaiy/PoisonPlug malware on MANUFACTURER #2's protected 
computers. The conspirators carried out the intrusion, in part, through HOP POINT ONE. 
32. 
By using this malware, the conspirators obtained information through unauthorized 
access to MANUFACTURER #2' s protected computers. 
In addition, the intrusion caused 
damages to MANUFACTURER #2, including remediation costs, which exceeded $1,000,000. 
33. 
MEDICAL PROVIDER #3 was a medical provider and research organization 
based in the United States, which maintained protected computers in the United States. 
34. 
On or about May 3, 2018, the conspirators gained unauthorized access to an ECS #1 
account assigned to MEDICAL PROVIDER #3. The conspirators exploited that access to 
compromise MEDICAL PROVIDER #3's protected computers, including a protected computer 
which MEDICAL PROVIDER #3 used for medical research. 
The conspirators installed 
Crosswalk/ProxIP malware on MEDICAL PROVIDER #3 's protected computers. 
The 
conspirators carried out the intrusion, in part, through HOP POINT TWO, a C2 Server in 
California. 
35. 
The conspirators used unauthorized access to accounts provided by ECS #1 in 
connection with other criminal schemes. The operations of those schemes were reflected in 
electronic communications among the conspirators, including November 
13, 
2017, 
communications between JIANG and another conspirator associated with CHENGDU 404, 
referred to here as "HACKER FOUR." During this conversation, JIANG and HACKER FOUR 
12 
discussed searching for computers to compromise using unauthorized access to accounts provided 
by ECS #1. JIANG told HACKER FOUR that it was "easy" to find companies to target by 
searching lists of publicly-traded companies .through "stock websites." JIANG told HACKER 
FOUR to identify such publicly-traded companies, find their website addresses, and then "search 
directly" for ECS #1 accounts associated with those addresses. In one case, HACKER FOUR 
followed JIANG's recommendations and targeted a hotel chain headquartered in Hong Kong, as 
shown in Table 1. 
Table 1 
Sender 
Recipient 
Translated Content 
HACKER 
JIANG 
You're getting addicted to playing with [ECS # 1]. When I first 
FOUR 
started playing with [ECS #1] I was like that too, hahahaha. 
HACKER 
JIANG 
Feels kind of like playing lottery. 
FOUR 
JIANG 
HACKER 
Plan to gather twenty or thirty thousand machines, so there 
FOUR 
would be some income. 
HACKER 
JIANG 
What is the other company? 
FOUR 
HACKER 
JIANG 
See if other people have ones to pay. 
FOUR 
JIANG 
HACKER 
A company in Malaysia, related to cars, don't know the details 
FOUR 
yet... 
HACKER 
JIANG 
OK, I'm going to get ready and shower first. 
FOUR 
JIANG 
HACKER 
I see [HOTEL COMP ANY] 
FOUR 
HACKER 
JIANG 
Hotel? 
FOUR 
JIANG 
HACKER 
Yes.. . 
FOUR 
JIANG 
HACKER 
Looks like there are plenty of machines ... 
FOUR 
HACKER 
JIANG 
That'll work. 
FOUR 
JIANG 
HACKER 
I think the libraries will also be valuable ... 
FOUR 
13 
Table 1 
Sender 
Recipient 
Translated Content 
HACKER 
JIANG 
Look up check-in records. 
FOUR 
JIANG 
HACKER 
Right.. . 
FOUR 
HACKER 
JIANG 
Right. 
FOUR 
HACKER 
JIANG 
Hahaha, all rich people. 
FOUR 
JIANG 
HACKER 
Imagine that, sending mass blackmail emails, hahahahaha. 
FOUR 
HACKER 
JIANG 
There should be quite a lot to take advantage of from this, just 
FOUR 
have to figure out how to use it. 
36. 
In some cases, JIANG and HACKER FOUR leveraged their unauthorized access 
to ECS #1 accounts to compromise corporate networks containing thousands of protected 
computers, and then used protected computers on those networks to carry out a crypto-j acking 
scheme. For example, on December 6, 2017, JIANG advised HACKER FOUR that the "mining 
is starting to run here, a Singapore domain with over 7000 machines. The last peak number of 
online machines was about 1000. I think the computing power will be lowered significantly. 
suppose a lot are off work now. We should get more domains to increase the computing power. 
Let's see how the profit is if we get a total of around 10,000 machines." In order to identify 
additional targets, JIANG advised HACKER FOUR that "France and Italy are pretty good, lots of 
well-known corporations, and mostly not in IT ... Just search for well-known French and Italian 
corporations and do those.... The only thing is that the time difference is a bit troublesome. Going 
on [ECS #1] at night happens to be their work hours." 
37. 
The conspirators sometimes worked to gain control over "domain controllers," 
servers, which many corporate networks used to control security authentication requests and other 
14 
I 
privileges for all users within a particular network segment. This access could then be used to 
facilitate widespread access to computers that are members ofthe corporate domain. For example, 
as shown in Table 2, on November 29, 2017, JIANG and HACKER FOUR discussed efforts to 
compromise domain controllers at a multinational retailer, based in Sweden, including by stealing 
passwords. 
Sender 
Recipient 
JIANG 
HACKER 
FOUR 
HACKER 
JIANG 
FOUR 
HACKER 
JIANG 
FOUR 
HACKER 
JIANG 
FOUR 
JIANG 
HACKER 
FOUR 
HACKER 
JIANG 
FOUR 
HACKER 
JIANG 
FOUR 
JIANG 
HACKER 
FOUR 
Table 2 
Message Content 
The [MULTINATIONAL RETAILER] one, did you get 
the domain controller password? 
No, don't you have the domain controller machine on 
your side already? 
I didn't grab the password. 
I've been having trouble getting the domain controller of 
this domain for the past couple of days. It's fucking hard 
to get. 
Oh, yeah, but I didn't get the domain password ... 
Want the plain text password, right? 
I'll take a look in a while. 
Yeah, because they need the domain controller account 
to deploy mining programs ... 
Targeting Universities 
38. 
The conspirators also conducted computer intrusion activity at more than a dozen 
prominent universities in the United States, Hong Kong, and Taiwan, including, as examples, 
UNIVERSITY #4, UNIVERSITY #5, HONG KONG UNIVERSITY #6, HONG KONG 
UNIVERSITY #7, and TAIWAN UNIVERSITY #8. 
39. 
UNIVERSITY #4 was a research university in the United States, which maintained 
operations and protected computers in Indiana and elsewhere. 
15 
40. 
In about May 2018, the conspirators installed Crosswalk/ProxIP malware on 
multiple UNIVERSITY #4 protected computers, including computers used by individuals 
associated with the Departments of Computer Science, Veterinary Science, Pharmacy, and 
Athletics, as well as a network administrator. The conspirators carried out the intrusion, in part, 
using HOP POINT TWO. 
41. 
On or about May 8, 2019, the conspirators installed a webshell on a protected 
computer belonging to UNIVERSITY #4. The conspirators carried out this intrusion, in part, using 
one of several C2 Servers leased from VPS PROVIDER. 
42. 
UNIVERSITY #5 was a research university in the United States, which maintained 
operations and protected computers in Texas and elsewhere. 
43. 
Between about 2018 and about 2020, the conspirators- compromised protected 
computers belonging to UNIVERSITY #5. The conspirators carried out the intrusion, in part, 
using HOP POINT TWO, as well as C2 Servers leased from VPS PROVIDER. 
44. 
During the intrusion at UNIVERSITY #5, the conspirators used VPS PROVIDER 
servers to browse file servers on the UNIVERSITY #S's computer network. The conspirators 
browsed files related to network security at UNIVERSITY #5, as well as data related to 
Geographic Information Systems, and accessed files containing password data. 
In all, the 
conspirators browsed at least 4,200 files and directories on over 75 servers. 
45. 
The conspirators also obtained a UNIVERSITY #5 network security application 
designed to hunt for malware. The conspirators installed and executed this application on a VPS 
PROVIDER C2 Server on or about January 10, 2019. 
46. 
HONG KONG UNIVERSITY #6 was a university located in Hong Kong. On or 
about November 1, 2019, using the open source phishing tool "GOPHISH," and a·C2 Server leased 
16 
from VPS PROVIDER, the conspirators sent spear-phishing e-mails to multiple recipients at three 
universities in Hong Kong, including HONG KONG UNIVERSITY #6. 
47. 
HONG KONG UNIVERSITY #7 was a university located in Hong Kong. In about 
January 2020, the conspirators installed PlugX malware on four of HONG KONG UNIVERSITY 
#7's protected computers. The conspirators carried out the intrusion, in part, using a C2 Server 
leased from VPS PROVIDER. 
48. 
During the intrusion, the conspirators caused HONG KONG UNIVERSITY #7's 
protected computers to transmit information, including system details and registry information, to 
a C2 Server leased from VPS PROVIDER. For example, between about January 16, 2020, and 
January 18, 2020, a C2 Server leased from VPS PROVIDER sent electronic communications to, 
and received electronic communications from, four of HONG KONG UNIVERSITY #7's 
protected computers. 
49. 
TAIWAN UNIVERSITY #8 was a research university in Taiwan, which 
maintained operations and protected computers in Taiwan. In or about 2019, the conspirators 
compromised protected computers at TAIWAN UNIVERSITY #8. The conspirators carried out 
the intrusion, in part, through a C2 Server leased from VPS PROVIDER. 
50. 
During the intrusion, in about October ~019, the conspirators caused TAIWAN 
UNIVERSITY #8's protected computers to transmit information to a C2 Server leased from VPS 
PROVIDER. The conspirators obtained extensive information from TAIWAN UNIVERSITY #8 
protected computers, including over 67,000 photographs with filenames bearing peoples' names. 
The image depicted below captures a redacted portion of the directory, which included those 
67,000 images. 
17 
Targeting Telecommunications Providers 
51. 
The conspirators also targeted and compromised prominent electronic 
communications services and telecommunications providers in the United States and around the 
world, including in Australia, China (Tibet), Chile, India, Indonesia, Malaysia, Pakistan, 
Singapore, South Korea, Taiwan, and Thailand. These providers included, as examples, ECS #9, 
ECS #10, ECS #11, and ECS #12. 
52. 
ECS #9 was an electronic communications services provider, which was based in 
the United States and operated protected computers in California and elsewhere. 
ECS #9 
developed and distributed a popular communications platform: 
53. 
On or about April 15, 2015, the conspirators sent a spear-phishing email to ECS #9 
employees. The header of the e-mail showed that it had been sent from HOP POINT ONE. The 
e-mail fraudulently purported to contain a job-seeker's resume. In fact, the e-mail contained a 
malicious attachment designed to install malware on the recipient's protected computer, and that 
initial malware was designed to facilitate the installation ofa second stage ofmalware. The second 
stage malware was designed to cause ECS #9 computers to contact a C2 Dead Drop page. The 
conspirators created that C2 Dead Drop page using a website that was popular with information 
technology professionals. 
18 
54. 
ECS #10 was an electronic communications services and social media provider 
based in the United States, with protected computers in California and elsewhere. During 2015, 
the conspirators targeted protected computers belonging to ECS #10. For example, on or about 
May 5, 2015, the conspirators sent over 140 spear-phishing e-mails to ECS #10 employees. Those 
spear-phishing e-mails contained the same malicious attachments which were contained in the 
spear-phishing e-mails directed against ECS #9. 
55. 
The conspirators also used ECS #10 to register fraudulent communications and 
social media accounts. The conspirators used those accounts to conduct target research and to 
engage in other activities in support of their hacking. For example, between about July 2017 and 
December 2017, the conspirators registered four social media accounts with ECS #10. The 
conspirators obtained their ECS #10 accounts using fake names and other fake personal 
information, and then used those accounts to seek contact with individuals employed by 
universities, manufacturers, hospitality, travel and ride sharing companies, and ECS #10 itself. 
56. 
ECS ,#11 was an electronic communications services provider, which operated 
protected computers in the United States, Europe, Asia, and elsewhere. ECS #11 developed and 
distributed a popular encrypted communications platform. 
57. 
The conspirators compromised protected computers belonging to ECS #11 
beginning no later than March 2015, and continuing through 2020. During the intrµsion, the 
conspirators installed Winnti/Pasteboy and other malware on protected computers belonging to 
ECS #11. The conspirators carried out the intrusion, in part, using HOP POINT ONE, HOP 
POINT TWO, and C2 Servers leased from VPS PROVIDER. 
58. 
The conspirators used their unauthorized access to ECS #11 's protected computers 
to obtain corporate data, including source code for ECS #11 software, in 2015. The conspirators 
continued their ECS# 11 intrusion campaign through at least January 2020. 
19 
59. 
In about January 2020, on a C2 Server leased from VPS PROVIDER, the 
conspirators possessed software which was designed to extract user contact data from protected 
computers that were ECS #11 servers. The conspirators used C2 Servers leased from VPS 
PROVIDER to conduct over 4,000,000 queries for ECS #11 user accounts that were linked to 
telephone numbers in over 200 countries, These queries revealed ECS #11 accounts linked to over 
700,000 phone numbers with country codes for Russia; ECS #11 accounts linked to over 268,000 
phone numbers with country codes for Myanmar; ECS #11 accounts linked to over 262,000 phone 
numbers with country codes for Iraq; and ECS #11 accounts linked to over 100,000 phone numbers 
with country codes for Vietnam, Egypt, Algeria, Ukraine, and the Philippines. 
60. 
ECS #12 was an electronic communications and telecommunications provider 
based in Pakistan. In about April 2019 and May 2019, the conspirators compromised protected 
computers at ECS #12. The conspirators carried out the intrusion, in part, using C2 Servers leased 
from VPS PROVIDER. During the intrusion, the conspirators caused ECS #12 servers to 
communicate with C2 Servers leased from VPS PROVIDER. In about May 2019, on a C2 Server 
leased from VPS PROVIDER, the conspirators possessed keylogger data which captured thee-
mail addresses and login credentials of at least three ECS #12 employees. 
Targeting Non-Profit Organizations 
61. 
The conspirators also targeted think-tank, non-profit, and non-governmental 
organizations in the United States and around the world, including, for example, NGO #13. 
62. 
NGO #13 was a non-profit organization based in the United States, with protected 
computers in the District of Columbia. 
63. 
In about 2018, the conspirators compromised at least twelve NGO #13 protected 
computers that were located in the District of Columbia. 
During the course of the intrusion, the 
conspirators installed Winnti/Pasteboy and Crosswalk/ProxIP malware on twelve of NGO #13's 
20 
protected computers in the District of Columbia, including an e-mail server. The conspirators 
carried out the intrusion, in part, using HOP POINT TWO. 
64. 
In about May 2018, as part of the computer intrusion at NGO #13, the conspirators 
caused NGO #13's protected computers in the District of Columbia to communicate with HOP 
POINT TWO. 
Targeting Video Game Companies 
65. 
The conspirators also targeted video game companies in the United States and 
elsewhere, including, as examples, VIDEO GAME COMPANY #14 and VIDEO GAME 
COMPANY #15. 
66. 
VIDEO GAME COMPANY #14 was a video game company which maintained 
protected computers in Brazil and elsewhere. VIDEO GAME COMPANY #14 was partly owned 
by a PRC-based multinational conglomerate holding company which owned or invested in 
subsidiary companies which specialized in various Internet-related services and products, 
entertainment, artificial intelligence and technology.· In about April 2015, through unauthorized 
access to VIDEO GAME COMPANY #14 computers, the conspirators obtained a copy of a 
database containing approxi~ately 25 million records reflecting customer names, addresses, 
password hashes, e-mail addresses, and other personal identifying information. The conspirators 
carried out the intrusion, in part, using HOP POINT ONE. 
67. 
VIDEO GAME COMPANY #15 was a video game company based in the United 
States, which maintained protected computers in Washington and elsewhere. On or about June 
15, 2016, malware was installed on a protected VIDEO GAME COMPANY #15 computer which 
was located in Washington. The conspirators carried out the intrusion, in part, using HOP POINT 
ONE. 
21 
68. 
During the course of the intrusion, the conspirators caused compromised VIDEO 
GAME COMP ANY#15 computers to seek contact with a C2 Dead Drop page and to communicate 
with HOP POINT ONE. The intrusion led to the compromise of dozens of VIDEO GAME 
COMP ANY #15 protected computers, as well as the theft oflogin credentials for multiple VIDEO 
GAME COMPANY# 15 employees. 
Ransomware Attacks 
69. 
In about 2020, in addition to the other types ofcomputer intrusions described above, 
the conspirators also deployed ransomware and demanded ransom payments from victims, 
including NGO #16, DEVELOPER #17, and ENERGY COMPANY #18. 
70. 
NGO #16 was a global non-profit organization dedicated to combatting poverty 
around the world, which maintained protected computers in the United States and elsewhere. On 
or about March 8, 2020, using a C2 Server leased from VPS PROVIDER, the conspirators used 
the vulnerability designated CVE-2020-10189 to obtain unauthorized access to an NGO #16 
protected computer located in the United States. On or about March 23, 2020, the conspirators 
encrypted a compromised NGO #16 computer with ransomware software that displayed a ransom 
note. The ransom note demanded payment in exchange for decryption. The note also directed 
NGO #16 to communicate with RANSOMW ARE E-MAIL ACCOUNT #1 to arrange payment. 
71. 
DEVELOPER #17 was a real estate company based in the United States, which 
maintained protected computers in Ohio and elsewhere. On, or about March 8, 2020, using a C2 
Server leased from VPS PROVIDER, the conspirators used the vulnerability designated CVE­
2020-10189 to obtain unauthorized access to a DEVELOPER #17 protected computer located in 
Ohio. On or about March 19, 2020, the conspirators encrypted four DEVELOPER #17 protected 
computers with ransomware software that displayed a ransom note. The ransom note demanded 
22 
payment in exchange for decryption. The note also directed DEVELOPER #17 to communicate 
with RANSOMW ARE E-MAIL ACCOUNT #1 to arrange payment. 
72. 
ENERGY COMPANY #18 was an energy company, which was based in Taiwan 
and maintained protected computers in Taiwan. On or about May 4, 2020, using a C2 Server in 
California, the conspirators caused ransomware to be installed on ENERGY COMPANY #18 
protected computers, which caused compromised computers to be encrypted. The intrusion 
disrupted ENERGY COMPANY #18 systems, including payment systems used in connection with 
ENERGY COMPANY #18 retail operations. 
Targeting Foreign Governments 
73. 
The conspirators have also targeted and compromised computer networks 
belonging to foreign government entities in Vietnam, India, and the United Kingdom. 
In 
connection with these activities, the conspirators used several commercial penetration testing tools, 
including Acunetix, a popular web vulnerability scanning tool, SQLMap, a database vulnerability 
scanning tool, and the Cobalt Strike penetration testing framework. The conspirators carried out 
these activities, in part, using C2 Servers leased from VPS PROVIDER. 
74. 
In about September 2018, using malware that was configured to work with the C2 
Domain remoteset.zyns[.]com, the conspirators compromised protected computers belonging to 
the government ofVietnam. 
75. 
In about 2019, the conspirators compromised government oflndia websites, as well 
as virtual private networks and database servers supporting the government of India. 
The 
conspirators used VPS PROVIDER servers to connect to an Open VPN network owned by the 
government of India. During the attacks, the conspirators installed Cobalt Strike malware on 
Indian government protected computers. 
·23 
76. 
In about December 2019, the conspirators used Acunetix tools to target websites 
belonging to the government of United Kingdom's websites. 
Sonar-X 
77. 
CHENGDU 404, including FU, developed a "big data" product named "SonarX," 
which was described in QIAN's records as an "Infonnation Risk Assessment System." SonarX 
served as an easily searchable repository for social media data that previously had been obtained 
by CHENGDU 404, including data concerning ECS #11 users. 
78. 
On or about March 19, 2018, FU registered domain name "sonarx[.]net." 
79. 
On or about November 12, 2018, QIAN saved records reflecting a SonarX query 
for individuals linked to various Hong Kong democracy and independence movements. This 
query result displayed a link chart with several dozen entities depicted by name as blue circles, 
including entities highlighted as red circles. The chart depicted links among the various entities, 
some with solid lines and some with dotted lines. The individuals represented by red circles 
included HONG KONG CITIZEN #1, a member of the Hong Kong Legislative Council; HONG 
KONG CITIZEN #2, a founding member ofthe Hong Kong Civic Party, a pro-democracy political 
party in Hong Kong; HONG KONG CITIZEN #3, a former member ofthe Legislative Council of 
Hong Kong; HONG KONG CITIZEN #4, an individual associated with the Hong Kong 
independence movement; and HONG KONG CITIZEN #5, a Hong Kong pro-democracy activist 
who is currently wanted by the Hong Kong police under the new PRC security law recently enacted 
in Hong Kong in 2020. 
80. 
On or about December 19, 2018, QIAN saved records reflecting a SonarX query 
for a U.S. telephone number. The query results linked the telephone number to MEDIA 
ORGANIZATION #19, a United States government-funded, nonprofit international broadcasting 
24 
corporation which has documented a selection of news from and about Uyghur people living in 
China's Xinjiang region. 
81. 
On or about February 21, 2019, QIAN saved records reflecting a SonarX query for 
the name of a Tibetan Buddhist monk. The query results revealed that the monk used ECS #11 
for communication, and listed the monk's region as "India." The query results contain entries 
concerning "chat content," "contacts," and "platforms" used by the monk. 
COUNT ONE 
(Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organization ("RICO") Conspiracy) 
82. 
Paragraphs 1 to 19 are re-alleged here. 
The Enterprise 
83. 
CHENGDU 404 (the "Enterprise") was an enterprise within the meaning of 18 
U.S.C. § 1961(4), that is, a legal entity, which was engaged in interstate and foreign commerce, 
and which was engaged in activities which affected the interstate and foreign commerce of the 
United States. 
84. 
The purposes of the Enterprise included generating money for its owners, officers, 
employees, and associates, including through "offensive" criminal computer hacking. 
This 
purpose was implemented by officers, employees, associates, and conspirators of the Enterprise 
through commercial activity, which included the commission of various criminal acts, including 
identity theft, wire and access device fraud, money laundering, and various forms of computer 
intrusions. The commercial activity of the Enterprise included the purchase, lease, and other use 
of services, computer infrastructure, and other goods in the United States and from providers in 
the United States. 
25 
The Racketee1·ing Conspiracy 
85 . 
Between about May 2014 and about August 2020, and beginning outside of the 
jurisdiction of any particular State or district and, pursuant to 18 U.S.C. §§ 3237 and 3238, within 
I 
the venue of the United States District Court for the District of Columbia, JIANG LIZHI, QIAN 
CHUAN, and FU QIANG, together with others known and unknown to the Grand Jury, being 
persons employed by and associated with CHENGDU 404, an Enterprise which engaged in, 
and the activities of which affected, interstate and foreign commerce, knowingly and 
intentionallyconspired, together and with others known and unknown to the Grand Jury, to 
violate 18 U.S.C. § 1962( c ), that is, to conduct, and pmiicipate, directly m1d indirectly, in the conduct 
of, the affairs ofsaid Enterprise through a pattern ofracketeering activity, as defined in 18 U.S.C. §§ 
1961 (1) m1d ( 5), consisting ofmultiple acts indictable under the following provisions offederal law: 
a. 
18 U.S.C. § 1028 (relating to identity theft); 
b. 
18 U.S.C. § 1029 (relating to access device fraud) 
c. 
18 U.S.C. § 1030(a)(5)(A) and (c)(4)(A)(i)(VI) (relating to computer fraud) 
d. 
18 U.S.C. § 1343 (relating to wire fraud); and 
e. 
18 U.S.C. § 1956 (relating to money laundering). 
I 
86. 
It was a part of the conspiracy that each defendant agreed that a conspirator would 
commit at least two acts ofracketeering activity in the conduct ofthe affairs ofthe Enterprise. 
Manner and Means of the Racketeering Conspiracy 
87. 
The manner and means of the conspiracy include the manner and means described 
in Paragraphs 20 to 81, which are re-alleged here. 
88. 
In furtherance ofthe conspiracy, and to achieve the object and purposes thereof, 
beginning outside of the jurisdiction of any particular State or district and, pursuant to Title 18, 
United States Code, Sections 3237 and 3238, within the venue ofthe United States District Court 
26 
for the District of Columbia, JIANG LIZHI, QIAN CHU AN, and FU QIANG, together with other 
conspirators known and unknown to the Grand Jury, performed or caused to be performed the 
acts described in Paragraphs 20 to 81, which are re-alleged here. In addition, 
a. Between about May 2014 and about August 2020, in order to promote the 
carrying on of computer hacking activity, the conspirators used and shared 
computer infrastructure in the PRC, including a corporate VPN service. For 
example, on November 6, 2017, in connection with an ongoing hacking 
operation, JIANG advised HACKER FOUR, "you'll have to dial the VPN to 
the company," and then specified "vpn2.umisen[.]com," as well as a usemame 
and the password "wahaha@20170"; 
b. Between about 2014 and about 2017, in order to promote the carrying on of 
computer hacking activity, and through payments which originated outside of 
the United States, and which were paid to a provider in California, the 
conspirators leased HOP POINT ONE; 
c. Beginning in 2014, in order to promote the carrying on of computer hacking 
activity, using domain registrars in the United States and elsewhere, the 
conspirators registered domain names which were used for C2 Domains; 
d. In about April and May 2015, using e-mail accounts which were accessed from 
HOP POINT ONE, the conspirators sent hundreds offraudulent spear-phishing 
e-mails to technology and video game companies, including VIDEO GAME 
COMPANY #15. For example, in one three-day period, between June 1, 2015, 
and June 3, 2015, one account sent 362 spear-phishing e-mails containing one 
of three attachments, all ofwhich appeared to contain a legitimate resume, but 
which in fact contained malware. 
27 
e. In or about 2015, the conspirators also used some e-mail accounts both to send 
spear-phishing e-mails and to register C2 Domains. For example, one e-mail 
account was used (1) to register domains using DOMAIN REGISTRAR, and 
also (2) to send fraudulent spear-phishing e-mails. Between about April 30, 
2015, and May 14, 2015, the conspirators used this e-mail account to send 
several hundred fraudulent spear-phishing e-mails to e-mail accounts for 
employees of ECS #20, an online file storage provider, and VIDEO GAME 
COMPANY #21, a company which was based in the United States. 
f. 
On or about June 28, 2016, through the computer intrusion at VIDEO GAME 
COMPANY #15, and to obtain additional access to protected computers at 
VIDEO GAME COMPANY #15, the conspirators obtained login credentials 
belonging to K.C., an employee of VIDEO GAME COMPANY #15, and used 
those login credentials in furtherance ofthe conspiracy. 
g. Between about 2017 and 2019, in order to promote the carrying on of computer 
hacking activity, and through payments which originated outside ofthe United 
States, and which were paid to a provider in California, the conspirators leased 
HOP POINT TWO; 
h. Beginning in about 2017, in order to promote the carrying on of computer 
hacking activity, and through payments which originated outside ofthe United 
States, and which were paid to a provider in Florida, the conspirators leased 
servers from VPS PROVIDER, and used those servers as C2 Servers. 
(Racketeering_Conspiracy, in violation of Title 18, United States Code, Section 1962(d)) 
28 
COUNT TWO 
(Conspiracy to Commit Computer Hacking Offenses in Violation of 18 U.S.C. § 1030) 
89. 
Paragraphs 1 to 81 are re-alleged here. 
Overview of the Conspiracy 
90. 
Between at least May 2014 and August 2020, and beginning outside of the 
jurisdiction of any particular State or district and, pursuant to 18 U.S.C. §§ 3237 and 3238, within 
the venue of the United States District Court for the District of Columbia, JIANG LIZHI, QIAN 
CHUAN, and FU QIANG, together with other conspirators known and unknown to the Grand 
Jury, did knowingly and willfully combine, conspire, confederate, and agree with each other to 
commit the following offenses against the United States: 
a. 
For purposes of commercial advantage and private financial gain, and in 
furtherance of a criminal and tortious act in violation of the Constitution 
and the laws ofthe United States, that is, wire fraud, in violation of Title 18, 
United States Code, Section 1343, intentionally accessed, and attempted to 
access, computers without authorization, and thereby obtained, and 
attempted to obtain, information from protected computers, such conduct 
having involved an interstate and foreign communication, in violation of 
Title 18, United States Code; Sections 1030(a)(2)(C) and (c)(2)(B)(i) and 
(ii); and 
b. 
Knowingly caused the transmission df a program, information, code, and 
command, and as a result of such conduct, intentionally caused, or 
attempted to cause, damage without authorization to protected computers, 
and caused, or attempted to cause, more than $5,000 in loss in one year, and 
caused, or attempted to cause, damage affecting 10 or more protected 
29 
computers during a one-year period, in violation of Title 18, United States 
Code, Sections 1030(a)(5)(A) and (c)(4)(B); 
c. 
With intent to extort from any person any money or other thing of value, 
transmitted in interstate or foreign commerce, communications containing 
any demand or request for money or other thing of value, in relation to 
damage to a protected computer, where such damage was caused to 
facilitate the extortion, in violation ofTitle 18, United States Code, Sections 
1030(a)(7)(c) and (c)(3)(A); 
in violation of Title 18, United States Code, Sections 371, 1030(a)(2)(C) and (c)(2)(B)(i) and (ii), 
and Sections 1030(a)(2)(C), (a)(5)(A), (a)(7)(C), and (c). 
Objects, Manners, and Means of the Conspiracy 
91. 
The objects of the conspiracy were to obtain and install malware on protected 
computers, to damage such computers, to gain unauthorized access to those and other protected 
computers, to obtain information of value that belonged to the owners and users of the targeted 
protected computers, and to do so by means of materially false and fraudulent representations and 
pretenses, and to otherwise defraud and obtain information and digital items of value, including 
software signing certificates, data, personal information, and means to conduct further intrusions. 
92. 
As part of the conspiracy to commit computer hacking offenses, the conspirators 
used the same manners and means which are described in Paragraphs 20 to 25. The manners and 
means described in Paragraphs 20 to 25 are re-alleged here. 
Overt Acts 
93. 
In furtherance of the conspiracy to commit computer hacking offenses, the overt 
acts described in Paragraphs 26 to 81, and in Paragraph 88, were committed beginning outside of 
the jurisdiction of any particular State or district and, pursuant to Title 18, United States Code, 
30 
Sections 3237 and 3238, within the venue of the United States District Court for the District of 
Columbia. The overt acts described in Paragraphs 26 to 81, and in Paragraph 88 are thus re-alleged 
here. 
94. 
The malware installed on computers which were successfully compromised by the 
conspirators typically, and including for MANUFACTURER #2, caused losses exceeding $5,000. 
(Conspiracy, in violation of Title 18, United States Code, Sections 371, 1030(a)(2)(C) and 
(c)(2)(B)(i) and (ii), 1030(a)(5)(A) and (c)(4)(B)(i)) 
COUNT THREE 
(Intentional Damage to a Protected Computer) 
95. 
Paragraphs 1 to 81 are re-alleged here. 
96. 
On or about May 1, 2018, and beginning outside ofthe jurisdiction ofany particular 
State or district and, pursuant to 18 U.S.C. §§ 3237 and 3238, within the venue ofthe United States 
District Court for the District of Columbia, JIANG LIZHI, QIAN CHUAN, and FU QIANG, 
together with other conspirators known and unknown to the Grand Jury, knowingly attempted to 
cause, and did cause, the transmission of a program, information, code, and command, and aided 
and abetted the same, and, as a result of such conduct, intentionally caused damage without 
authorization to protected computers in the District of Columbia, said computers belonging to 
NGO #13. The offense caused loss resulting from a related course of conduct affecting one or 
more other protected computers aggregating at least $5,000 in value, and the offense caused 
damage affecting 10 or more protected computers during a one-year period. 
(Attempted Intentional Damage to a Protected Computer, in violation ofTitle 18, United 
States Code, Sections 1030(a)(5)(A) and (c)(4)(B) and 2) 
COUNT FOUR 
(Obtaining Information by Unauthorized Access to a Protected Computer) 
97. 
Paragraphs 1 to 81 are re-alleged here. 
31 
98. 
On or about May 1, 2018, and beginning outside ofthe jurisdiction ofany particular 
State or district and, pursuant to 18 U.S.C. §§ 3237 and 3238, within the venue ofthe United States 
District Court for the District of Columbia, JIANG LIZHI, QIAN CHUAN, and FU QIANG, 
together with other conspirators known and unknown to the Grand Jury, for purposes of 
commercial advantage and private financial gain, and in furtherance of a criminal and tortious act 
in violation of the Constitution and the laws of the United States, that is, wire fraud, in violation 
of Title 18, United States Code, Section 1343, attempted to intentionally access, and did 
intentionally access, a protected computer belonging to NGO #13 without authorization, and aided 
and abetted the same, and thereby obtained, and attempted to obtain, information from a protected 
computer belonging to NGO #13. 
(Obtaining Information by Unauthorized Access to a Protected Computer, in violation of 
Title 18, United States Code, Sections 1030(a)(2)(C) and (c)(2)(B)(i) and (ii) and 2) ­
COUNT FIVE 
(Threatening to Damage a Protected Computer) 
99. 
Parawaphs 1 to 81 are re-alleged here. 
100. 
On or about March 19, 2020, and beginning outside of the jurisdiction of any 
p~icular State or district and, pursuant to 18 U.S.C. § 3238, within the venue ofthe United States 
District Court for the District of Columbia, JIANG LIZHI, QIAN CHUAN, and FU QIANG, 
together with other conspirators known and unknown to the Grand Jury, with intent to extort from 
DEVELOPER #17 money and other things of value, transmitted in interstate and foreign 
commerce a communication containing a demand and request for money and other thing of value 
in relation to damage to a protected computer, and aided and abetted the same, where such damage 
was caused to facilitate the extortion. 
(Threatening to Damage a Protected Computer, in violation of Title 18, United States Code, 
Sections 1030( a)(7)(C), (b), ( c )(3)(A), and 2) 
32 
COUNT SIX 
(Access Device Fraud) 
101. 
Paragraphs 1 to 81 are re-alleged here. 
102. 
On or about June 28, 2016, and beginning outside of the jurisdiction of any 
particular State or district and, pursuant to 18 U.S.C. § 3238, within the venue ofthe United States 
District Court for the District of Columbia, JIANG LIZHI, QIAN CHUAN, and FU QIANG, 
together with other conspirators known and unknown to the Grand Jury, did knowingly and with 
intent to defraud, and in a manner affecting interstate and foreign commerce by the use ofinterstate 
and foreign wire transmissions, possess and use one or more unauthorized access devices, that is, 
login credentials belonging to K.C., an employee of VIDEO GAME COMPANY #15, for access 
to protected computers of VIDEO GAME COMPANY #15, and aided and abetted the same, and 
by such conduct, between June 15, 2016, and June 15, 2017, in a period of less than one year, 
attempted to obtain and did obtain anything of value aggregating $1,000 or more. 
(Access Device Fraud, in violation of Title 18, United States Code, Sections 1029(a)(2) and 
( c )(1 )(A)(i) and. 2) 
COUNT SEVEN 
(Identity Theft) 
103. 
Paragraphs 1 to 81 are re-alleged here. 
104. 
On or about June 29, 2016, and beginning outside of the jurisdiction of any 
particular State or district and, pursuant to 18 U.S.C. § 3238, within the venue ofthe United States 
District Court for the District of Columbia, JIANG LIZHI, QIAN CHUAN, and FU QIANG, 
together with other conspirators known and unknown to the Grand Jury, did knowingly possess 
and use, and attempt to possess and use, in a manner affecting interstate commerce, without lawful 
authority, a means ofidentification ofanother person, that is, login credentials belonging to M.B., 
an employee of VIDEO GAME COMPANY #15, knowing that the means of identification 
33 
belonged to another actual person, with the intent to commit, and to aid and abet, and in connection 
with, unlawful activity that constitutes a violation ofFederal law and that constitutes a felony under 
any applicable State and local law, that is, wire fraud, in violation of Title 18, United States Code, 
Section 1343, and access device fraud, in violation of Title 18, United States Code, Section 
1029(a)(2). 
(Identity Theft, in violation of Title 18, United States Code, Sections 1028(a)(7) and (b)(2)(B), 
and2) 
COUNT EIGHT 
(Aggravated Identity Theft) 
105. 
Paragraphs 1 to 81 are re-alleged here. 
106. 
On or about June 28, 2016, and beginning outside of the jurisdiction of any 
particular State or district and, pursuant to Title 18, United States Code, Section 3238, within the 
venue of the United States District Court for the District of Columbia, JIANG LIZHI, QIAN 
CHUAN, and FU QIANG, together with other conspirators known and unknown to the Grand 
Jury, during and in relation to the crime of wire fraud, in violation ofTitle 18, United States Code, 
Section 1343, and the crime of obtaining information by unauthorized access to a protected 
computer, in violation of Title 18, United States Code, Section 1030(a)(2)(C), did knowingly 
transfer, possess, and use, without lawful authority, a means of identification of another person, 
K.C., an employee of VIDEO GAME COMPANY #15, and aided and abetted the same. 
(Aggravated Identity Theft, in violation of Title 18, United States Code, Sections 1028A(a)(l), 
1028A(b), 1028A(c)(4), (5), and 2) 
34 
COUNT NINE 
(Money Laundering) 
107. 
Paragraphs 1 to 81 are re-alleged here. 
108. 
On or about April 14, 2018, and beginning outside of the jurisdiction of any 
particular State or district and, pursuant to Title 18, United States Code, Section 3238, within the 
venue of the United States District Court for the District of Columbia, JIANG LIZHI, QIAN 
CHUAN, and FU QIANG, together with other conspirators known and unknown to the Grand 
Jury, knowingly transported, transmitted, and transferred funds, and aided, abetted and willfully 
caused, the transport, transmitting, and transfer of funds, that is, a $143.67 payment for the lease 
of HOP POINT TWO, to a place in the United States from and through a place outside the United 
States, with the intent to promote the carrymg on of specified unlawful activity, that is, 
intentionally damaging, and obtaining information by unauthorized access to, protected 
computers, in violation ofTitle 18, United States Code, Sections 1030(a)(5)(A) and 1030(a)(2)(C), 
and identity theft, in violation of United States Code, Section 1028(a)(7). 
(Money Laundering, in violation of Title 18, United States Code, Sections 1956(a)(2)(A) and 2) 
FORFEITURE ALLEGATION 
1. 
Upon conviction of the offense alleged in Count 1 of this Indictment, the 
defendants shall forfeit to the United States: 
a) any interests the defendants acquired or maintained in violation 18 U.S.C. § 1962, which 
interests are subject to forfeiture to the United States pursuant to 18 U.S.C. § 1963(a)(l); 
b) any interest in, security of, claim against, and/or property or contractual rights of any 
kind which afford a source of influence over any enterprise which the defendants 
established, operated, controlled, conducted, and/or participated in the conduct of, in 
violation of 18 U.S.C. § 1962, which interests, securities, claims, and rights are subject to 
35 
forfeiture to the United States pursuant to 18 U.S.C. § 1963(a)(2); 
c) any property constituting, or derived from, any proceeds obtained, directly or indirectly, 
from racketeering activity, in violation of 18 U.S.C. § 1962, which property is subject to 
forfeiture to the United States pursuant to 18 U.S.C. § 1963(a)(3). 
2. 
Upon conviction of any of the offenses alleged in Counts 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, and/or 7 of 
this Indictment, the defendants shall forfeit to the United States any property constituting, or 
derived from, proceeds that the defendants obtained directly or indirectly, as the result of these 
violations, pursuant to 18 U.S.C. § 982(a)(2)(B). The United States will also seek a forfeiture 
money judgment against the defendants equal to the value of any property constituting, or derived 
from, proceeds that the defendants obtained directly or indirectly, as the result of these violations. 
3. 
Upon conviction of any of the offenses alleged in Counts 2, 3, 4, and/or 5 of this 
Indictment, the defendants shall forfeit to the United States: (a) the defendant's interest in any 
personal property that was used or intended to be used to commit or to facilitate the commission 
of these violations; (b) any property, real or personal, constituting or derived from, any proceeds 
the defendants obtained, directly or indirectly, as a result of these violations; ( c) any personal 
property used or intended to be used to commit or to facilitate the commission ofthese violations; 
and ( d) any property, real or personal, which constitutes or is derived from proceeds traceable to 
these violations, pursuant to 18 U.S.C. §§ 1030(i) and G). The United States will also seek a 
forfehure money judgment against the defendants equal to the value ofthis property. 
4. 
Upon conviction of any of the offenses alleged in Counts 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, and/or 7 of 
this Indictment, the defendants shall forfeit to the United States any property, real or personal, 
which constitutes or is derived from proceeds traceable to these offenses, pursuant to 18. U.S.C. 
§ 981(a)(l)(C) and 28 U.S.C. § 2461(c). The United States will also seek a forfeiture money 
36 
judgment against the defendants equal to the value of any property, real or personal, which 
constitutes or is derived from proceeds traceable to these offenses. 
5. 
Upon conyiction ofthe offense alleged in Count 6 ofthis Indictment, the defendants 
shall forfeit to the United States any personal property used or intended to be used to commit this 
offense, pursuant to 18 U.S.C. §§ 1029(c)(l)(C). The United States will also seek a forfeiture 
money judgment against the defendants equal to the value of any personal property used or 
intended to be used to commit this offense. 
6. 
Upon conviction of the offense alleged in Count 7 of this Indictment, the 
defendants shall forfeit to the United States any personal property used or intended to be used to 
commit this offense, pursuant to 18 U.S.C. §§ 1028(b)(5). The United States will also seek a 
forfeiture money judgment against the defendants equal to the value ofany personal property used 
or intended to be used to commit this offense. 
7. 
Upon conviction ofthe offense alleged in Count 9 ofthis Indictment, the defendants 
shall forfeit to the United States any property, real or personal, involved in this offense or any 
, 
. 
property traceable to such property, pursuant to 18 U.S.C. § 982(a)(l). The United States will also 
seek a forfeiture money judgment against the defendants equal to the value of any property, real 
or personal, involved in this offense, or any property traceable to such property. 
8. 
If any of the property described above as being subject to forfeiture, as a result of 
any act or omission ofthe defendant: 
a. 
cannot be located upon the exercise of due diligence; 
b. 
has been transferred or sold to, or deposited with, a third party; 
c. 
has been placed beyond the jurisdiction ofthe Court; 
d. 
has been substantially diminished in value; or 
37 
e. 
has been commingled with other property that cannot be divided without 
difficulty; 
the defendant shall forfeit to the United States any other property ofthe defendant, up to the value 
ofthe property described above, pursuant to 18 U.S.C. § 1963(m) and 21 U.S.C. § 853(p). 
(Criminal Forfeiture, pursuant to Title 18, United States Code, Section 981(a)(l)(C), and 
Section 1963, Title 28, United Sates Code, Section 2461(c), Title 18, United States Code, 
Sections 982(a)(l) and 982(a)(2), Title 18, United States Code, Sections 1030(i) and G), 
and Title 21, United States Code, Section 853(p)). 
A TRUE BILL 
Foreperson 
MICHAEL SHERWIN 
ACTING UNITED STATES ATTORNEY IN AND FOR 
THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA 
38 
