1/16
mp-weixin-qq-com.translate.goog /s/B0ElRhbqLzs-wGQh79fTww
VajraEleph from South Asia - Cyber   espionage against
Pakistani military personnel revealed
QAX Virus Response Center Qi Anxin Virus Response Center 2022-03-30 18:00
Qi Anxin Virus Response Center
1.   Summary of the event
In February 2022 , the mobile security team of Qi'anxin Virus Response Center noticed that since June
2021, an APT group mainly targets Pakistan the Tanzanian military has launched organized, planned and
targeted military espionage intelligence activities. After just nine months of attacks, the group has
affected dozens of Pakistani military personnel. This part of the victim The personnel are mainly Pakistani
national border guards (FC) and special forces (SSG), especially the Balochistan border guards
(FCBLN); in addition lso contains a small amount of FBI (FIA) and police. Another attack also affected a
small number of Nepalese personnel, but domestic users in China were not affected by it.
2/16
Figure 1.1 Distribution of affected countries
The organization usually uses public social platforms to find the target of concern , and combines
pornographic words and other chats to induce the target users to install the specified bait chat attack
application. Used for phishing attacks. Furthermore the attacker also published the malicious chat
application on a well-known foreign app store platform, but the relevant links are now inaccessible.
As of the time of this report , all the attacks of this group that we have intercepted are carried out through
the An d r oi d platform , and we have not found any via the Windows platform attack. A total of 8
malicious application download servers have been captured , and at least 5 different Android platform
attack samples can be downloaded on the servers. All samples were dedicated chat software for Italian
codes. We name all these captured malicious samples VajraSpy .
Comprehensive analysis of the attack activity characteristics, sample coding method, C2 server
architecture and other clues shows that the organization has a regional power in South Asia. the
background of the government, but also live with the region Other APT tissues that jumped, such as
Sidewinder, Manling Flower Bitter, Belly Brainworm Donot, etc., were not significantly associated (only
with Bellyworm Donot there is a small amount of similarity), with strong independence and independent
3/16
characteristics. Therefore we identified this organization as a new APT organization active in South Asia.
We named it King Kong Elephant, English the document name is VajraEleph, and the organization
number is APT-Q-43. King Kong Elephant is the 15th APT organization that Qi Anxin independently
discovered and first disclosed.
2.   Load delivery _
Through the Qi Anxin Virus Response Center mobile security team and the Qi Anxin threat intelligence
platform (https ://ti.qianxin.com/) joint tracking analysis found that the earliest activities of the King Kong
Elephant Organization can be traced back to June 2021. The following picture shows the earliest payload
server information of the organization that we intercepted.
Figure 2.1 Screenshot of the earliest domain name payload server discovered (using NameSilo registrar
domain name)
In the early attacks of this group, the "short link" of the download address of the attack payload is usually
sent to the target through social software such as WhatsApp. Later, with the major social Taiwan banned
related links, and the organization switched to delivering short links to target people in the form of
pictures.
payload short chain addressCorresponding to the actual download address
https://cutt.ly/qIrgCKo
https://appz.live/ichfghbtt/crazy.apk
https://bit.ly/3BrCxNU
https://appzshare.digital/coufgtdjvi/ZongChat(Beta).apk
https://bit.ly/39roCMd
https://apzshare.club/poahbcyskdh/cable.apk
https://rebrand.ly/Cable_v2
https://appzshare.club/poahbcyskdh/cable.apk
4/16
Table 1 The discovered payload delivery short chains and their corresponding actual download
addresses _ 
The load name servers used by this organization are all registered for less than a year and the registrars
are mainly NameSilo and NameCheap. This is in line with another recent activity in South Asia the
activity of the advanced attack group, the Brainworm, is similar.
Figure 2. 2 part of the domain name payload server who is the situation 
3. Attack target
5/16
The King Kong Elephant Group has obvious intentions to steal military intelligence, mainly targeting
Pakistani military personnel, affecting dozens of military personnel who have been involved in several
units. Here is what we get from attacker C2 The photos and information of some victims' mobile phones
were intercepted on the server.
Figure 3.1 Stolen photos of Pakistan Frontier Guard (FC, FrontierCorps) personnel
6/16
Figure 3.2 Stolen photos of Pakistani Balochistan Border Guard (FC BLN , FC Balochistan) personnel
7/16
Figure 3.3 Information stolen from Balochistan border guards
8/16
Figure 3.4 Stolen photos of Pakistani special forces
9/16
Figure 3.5 Stolen photos of Pakistani police
10/16
Figure 3.6 Information stolen from Pakistani police
11/16
Figure 3.7 Pakistani Federal Bureau of Investigation (FIA, FederalInvestigationAgency) personnel were
stolen photos piece   
12/16
Figure 3.8 Stolen Information on the Chief of Staff of the Army
4. Technical Analysis _ 
Through analysis, it is found that the attack RAT invested by the King Kong Elephant Organization is
currently targeting the Android platform. Analysis shows that the organization has a high degree of RAT
customization and we Named VajraSpy. VajraSpy supports all the classic functions of espionage and
stores the stolen data in a designated Google cloud storage space.
function
Corresponding post - stealing data
storage file name
steal call logs
logs.json
steal address book
contacts.json
Steal SMS
sms.json
13/16
Steal 1 5 types of files in the specified
directory of the SD card
file / filename
Steal notification bar information
noti/13-bit timestamp.json
Steal device information
device.json
Steal installed application information
appdetails.json
Stealing three versions of WhatsApp
information  
wa.json / wab.json / wabs.json
Table 2  VajraSpy RAT main stealing functions  
Figure 4.1 15 types of files (text, pictures, audio) related code snippets stolen
14/16
5.   Attacker portrait
1 ) The purpose of the attack
Attackers targeted Pakistani military , security and police personnel, including border guards (FC), special
forces (SSG), Federal investigators Bureau (FIA) and Police and so on. Among them, the border guards
are the main target. There are also a small number of activities targeting Nepalese military personnel. It
can be seen from this that military personnel and military secrets are the the main purpose of the activity.
2 ) Attack method
Attackers are good at using social induced delivery and SMS induced delivery to attack, among which
social induced delivery is the main method.
3 ) Network assets
The mobile phone numbers used by the attackers are all exclusive numbers of mobile service providers
in a country in South Asia.
4 ) Native language features
The attackers used a large number of languages   from a South Asian country in their attacks. The country
has a longstanding military and geopolitical conflict with Pakistan.
5 ) Association with other APT organizations
The activity characteristics of the malicious sample download server are similar to those of the belly worm
(Donot).
Some of the filenames used in the attack have certain similarities to the Bellyworm tissue.
To sum up, the King Kong Elephant Organization should be a senior executive with a government
background in a South Asian country who mainly launched cyber attacks against Pakistani military
personnel and military activities. attack group, is an active new APT organization in South Asia.
6.   Summary and Recommendations
In traditional APT activities, the use of mobile social platforms is not common. This is because most of
the sensitive and confidential information is stored on the computer and on the other hand, it is also
caused by since attacks are launched through social platforms, it is easy to leave traces.
However, in the past two years, with the increasing popularity of mobile social platforms, we have found
that many APT activities targeting developing countries will be more or less via mobile platforms, social
platforms to proceed. For example, the Nuo Chong Lion Organization, the Blade Eagle Organization and
the Diamond Elephant Organization disclosed this time all target the Android platform and network of
social platforms attack activity. The analysis believes that the reasons for the increasing attention of APT
activities on mobile platforms and social platforms mainly include the following aspects:
First of all, the level of network security construction and management in many developing countries is
relatively backward, so that it is possible to gain access to smartphones only through attacks on
smartphones. Large amounts of sensitive and confidential information.
Second, the popularity of smartphones is getting higher and higher. It is a low-cost, high-cost way to
launch cyber attacks through social platforms against secret-related personnel with insufficient security
awareness. Efficient attack.
15/16
Third, smartphones often have more unfixed security vulnerabilities, and the penetration rate of mobile
security software is not high, which leads to the launch of network targeting mobile platforms. The
technical threshold of attack is relatively lower.
Then, for government and enterprise institutions, especially the military, police and other secret or
sensitive institutions, how should they do a good job in protection and try to avoid or reduce the targeting
of immigrants as much as possible? Mobile platform, social platform, what is the impact of APT activities
on yourself ? Here we give some practical suggestions as follows.
1 ) Work and life are separated, and sensitive information is not shared
Agencies should strive to avoid staff using personal smartphones for routine office activities. Conditional
units can distribute work mobile phones or confidential mobile phones to staff. If the conditions are true It
is not allowed. You can use enterprise - level secure mobile work platforms for internal communication
and office work, such as Lanxin and cloud mobile phone security management systems.
2 ) Strengthen safety awareness education and strictly implement safety regulations
Relevant institutions should strengthen employee security awareness education, do not use personal
mobile phones to shoot, store sensitive or confidential information, and do not share sensitive or
confidential information through social platforms information; don’t click on strangers’ posts Unknown
links come; reject the temptation of illegal information such as pornography and gambling. At the same
time, relevant agencies should also formulate practical cybersecurity management standards and
employee code of conduct, and carry out strict Supervision and review.
3 ) Update software system, use security software
Relevant institutions should require employees, whether it is an office mobile phone or a personal mobile
phone, to update the operating system and core software in a timely manner to ensure that the smart
phone starts to work. Always in the best safe condition. Same Install the necessary mobile phone security
software at any time to reduce the damage of various Trojan horses and viruses as much as possible.
4 ) Establish threat intelligence capabilities to prevent APT attacks
Relevant institutions should work with professional security vendors to build efficient threat information
collection, analysis and disposal capabilities, and timely detect, intercept and track various APT
activities.  Bring APT activities to the Impact and losses are minimized.
At present, a full line of products based on Qi'anxin's self - developed Owl engine and Qi'anxin Threat
Intelligence Center 's threat intelligence data , including Qi'anxin's threat intelligence platform (TIP),
Tianqing, Tianji, Sky Eye Advanced Threat Detection System, Qi An Xin N G SOC, Qi An Xin Situational
Awareness, etc., have all supported the accurate detection of such attacks.
IOCs
Domain name / IP
Purpose
appplace.shop
payload server
appz.live
payload server
apzshare.club
payload server
appzshare.digital
payload server
16/16
appzshare.club
payload server
212.24.100.197
payload server
Android  MD5  
Package name
7a47d859d5ee71934018433e3ab7ed5b com.cr.chat
0c980f475766f3a57f35d19f44b07666
com.crazy.talk
