EXCLUSIVE
CYBERSECURITY
U.S. Wiretap Systems Targeted in China-Linked Hack
AT&T and Verizon are among the broadband providers that were breached
By Sarah Krouse
, Dustin Volz
, Aruna Viswanatha
 and Robert McMillan
Updated Oct. 5, 2024 12:12 am ET
CHINA’S MULTIPRONGED SPYING OPERATIONS HAVE DRAWN WARNINGS IN THE U.S. ABOUT THEIR ECONOMIC IMPLICATIONS.
A cyberattack tied to the Chinese government penetrated the networks of a swath of U.S. broadband
providers, potentially accessing information from systems the federal government uses for court-authorized
network wiretapping requests.
For months or longer, the hackers might have held access to network infrastructure used to cooperate with
lawful U.S. requests for communications data, according to people familiar with the matter, which amounts
to a major national security risk. The attackers also had access to other tranches of more generic internet
traﬃc, they said.
Verizon Communications, AT&T and Lumen Technologies are among the companies whose networks were
breached by the recently discovered intrusion, the people said. 
The widespread compromise is considered a potentially catastrophic security breach and was carried out by
a sophisticated Chinese hacking group dubbed Salt Typhoon. It appeared to be geared toward intelligence
collection, the people said. 
Spokesmen for AT&T, Verizon and Lumen declined to comment on the Salt Typhoon campaign.
Companies are generally required to disclose material cyber intrusions to securities regulators within a short
time, but in rare cases, federal authorities can grant them an exemption from doing so on national security
grounds.
The surveillance systems believed to be at issue are used to cooperate with requests for domestic information
related to criminal and national security investigations. Under federal law, telecommunications and
related to criminal and national security investigations. Under federal law, telecommunications and
broadband companies must allow authorities to intercept electronic information pursuant to a court order. It
couldn’t be determined if systems that support foreign intelligence surveillance were also vulnerable in the
breach.
The attack and its signiﬁcance was discovered in recent weeks and remains under active investigation by the
U.S. government and private-sector security analysts. Investigators are still working to conﬁrm the breadth
of the attack and the degree to which the actors observed data and exﬁltrated some of it, the people said.
VERIZON IS AMONG THE COMPANIES WHOSE NETWORKS WERE BREACHED BY A RECENTLY DISCOVERED INTRUSION.
The hackers appear to have engaged in a vast collection of internet traﬃc from internet service providers that
count businesses large and small, and millions of Americans, as their customers. Additionally, there are
indications that the hacking campaign targeted a small number of service providers outside the U.S., the
people said. 
A person familiar with the attack said the U.S. government considered the intrusions to be historically
signiﬁcant and worrisome.
Senior U.S. oﬃcials have for years warned about the economic and national security implications of China’s
multipronged spying operations, which can take the form of human espionage, business investments and
high-powered hacking operations.
More recently oﬃcials have been alarmed by alleged eﬀorts by Chinese intelligence oﬃcers to burrow into
vulnerable U.S. critical infrastructure networks, such as water-treatment facilities, power stations and
airports. They say the eﬀorts appear to be an attempt by hackers to position themselves in such a way that
they could activate disruptive cyberattacks in the event of a major conﬂict with the U.S.
The Salt Typhoon campaign adds another piece to the puzzle. 
Investigators are still probing the origins of the Salt Typhoon attack and are exploring whether the intruders
gained access to Cisco Systems routers, core network components that route much of the traﬃc on the
internet, The Wall Street Journal previously reported. A Cisco spokeswoman said earlier that the company is
looking into the matter but has received no indication that Cisco routers were involved. The spokeswoman
didn’t immediately respond to a request for comment Friday.
China has routinely denied allegations from Western governments and technology companies that it relies on
China has routinely denied allegations from Western governments and technology companies that it relies on
hackers to break into foreign government and business computer networks.
In a statement, Liu Pengyu, a spokesman at the Chinese Embassy in Washington, said: “China ﬁrmly opposes
and combats cyberattacks and cyber theft in all forms.”
Microsoft is investigating the new Salt Typhoon intrusion along with other cybersecurity companies and
what sensitive information might have been accessed. Microsoft helps companies respond to cyber
intrusions using data from its vast, globe-spanning network of hardware and software and has assigned some
China-linked campaigns the Typhoon moniker. 
MICROSOFT SAID MOST OF SALT TYPHOON’S TARGETS WERE BASED IN NORTH AMERICA AND SOUTHEAST ASIA.
“It will take time to unravel how bad this is, but in the meantime it’s the most signiﬁcant in a long string of
wake-up calls that show how the PRC has stepped up their cyber game,” said Brandon Wales, former
executive director at the Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency and now a vice president at
SentinelOne, referring to the People’s Republic of China. “If companies and governments weren’t taking this
seriously before, they absolutely need to now.”
Salt Typhoon has been active since 2020 and is a nation-state hacking group based out of China that focuses
on espionage and data theft, particularly capturing network traﬃc, Microsoft said in a research note written
in August. “Most of Salt Typhoon’s targets are based in North America or Southeast Asia,” Microsoft said,
noting that other cybersecurity companies call the group GhostEmperor and FamousSparrow.
The cybersecurity ﬁrm ESET calls this group FamousSparrow and says it has previously broken into hotels
and government agencies worldwide.
U.S. oﬃcials in September said they had disrupted a network of more than 200,000 routers, cameras and
other internet-connected consumer devices that served as an entry point into U.S. networks for a China-
based hacking group called Flax Typhoon. In January, federal oﬃcials disrupted Volt Typhoon, another
China-linked campaign that has sought to inﬁltrate a swath of critical U.S. infrastructure.
U.S. oﬃcials warned that Volt Typhoon appeared largely focused on gaining access into networks to later
detonate cyberattacks that could cripple operations of infrastructure.
Drew FitzGerald contributed to this article.
Write to Sarah Krouse at sarah.krouse@wsj.com, Dustin Volz at dustin.volz@wsj.com, Aruna Viswanatha at
aruna.viswanatha@wsj.com and Robert McMillan at robert.mcmillan@wsj.com
