1/8
securelist-ru.translate.goog
/novyj-troyanec-crywiper/106114/
New Trojan CryWiper pretends to be a ransomware
Most cyberattacks are financially motivated, but in recent years there has been an increase in the number
of attacks whose goal is not to enrich, but to harm the victim. One of the tools of such attacks are wipers
(from the English wiper) - programs that destroy data without the possibility of recovery. The most notable
wipers to come out in 2022 include DoubleZero, IsaacWiper, HermeticWiper, CaddyWiper, WhisperGate,
AcidRain, Industroyer2 and RuRansom.
In the fall of 2022, our solutions detected attempts by a previously unknown Trojan, which we called
CryWiper, to attack an organization's network in the Russian Federation. After examining a sample of
malware, we found out that this Trojan, although it masquerades as a ransomware and extorts money
from the victim for “decrypting” data, does not actually encrypt, but purposefully destroys data in the
affected system. Moreover, an analysis of the Trojan's program code showed that this was not a
developer's mistake, but his original intention.
CryWiper Technical Details
The CryWiper sample that came to us is a 64-bit executable file for Windows OS. The malware was
developed in C++ and compiled using the MinGW-w64 toolkit and the GCC compiler. This is not the most
common approach among C/C++ malware developers for Windows — the Microsoft Visual Studio
development environment is more commonly used for such purposes. Building with MinGW is advisable
either when developing a cross-platform application for different operating systems (for example, under
Windows, Linux and / or FreeBSD), or if the developer himself uses something other than Windows as
2/8
the main OS. Note that in the case of CryWiper, the first option is unlikely, since the Trojan uses many
calls to WinAPI functions.
Sample build date, according to header PE field: 2022-09-06 11:08:54. 
The Trojan sample was found along the following path:
1 c:\windows\system32\browserupdate.exe
CryWiper algorithm
Create a task in the scheduler
After starting CryWiper using the Task Scheduler and the schtasks create command , it creates a task to
run its own file every 5 minutes.
Create a task in the scheduler
Communication with C&C
The Trojan then contacts its command and control server using an HTTP GET request and passes the
name of the infected computer as a parameter.
3/8
CryWiper request and response from C&C
In response, the C&C server sends the string run or do not run , which controls the behavior of the
Trojan. If run is returned , then CryWiper will immediately start malicious activity.
In all other cases, special logic is executed, which, judging by the results of our analysis, is conceived as
a delay of 4 days (345,600 seconds). However, it was poorly implemented: the code is written in such a
way that the malware will under no circumstances wait for the specified time and will simply terminate
execution if it has not received the run command. CryWiper saves the current time in the registry
(parameter HKCU\Software\Sysinternals\BrowserUpdate\Timestamp ) just before checking the response
from the server. Having received the command do not runor not given instructions, it calculates how
many seconds have passed since the stored moment, and if this value is less than 345,600 seconds,
exits. At the same time, it will never be more than 345,600 seconds - in fact, the check takes only a
fraction of a second. And the next time it is launched (see above — the Trojan created a task in the
scheduler for this purpose), CryWiper will overwrite the Timestamp value again .
4/8
Code that measures the time and checks the response from C&C
Stop processes, change settings
After receiving a run response , CryWiper stops processes related to the operation of MySQL and MS
SQL database servers, MS Exchange mail server and MS Active Directory web services using the taskkill
command. The Trojan does this in order to have access to files that would be occupied by these
processes if they were normal.
Stopping processes and deleting shadow copies
In addition, the Trojan deletes shadow copies of files using the vssadmin delete shadows /for=c: /all
command , which, however, only affects the C: drive. This is probably another oversight of the attacker.
Also, an interesting detail is related to changing the HKLM\SYSTEM\CurrentControlSet\Control\Terminal
Server\fDenyTSConnections registry setting , which is responsible for preventing connections to the
system via the Remote Desktop Protocol (RDP). In ransomware attacks, attackers often set this setting to
0 to allow RDP access to the system, such as for lateral distribution on a compromised network.
Here we observe the opposite behavior: CryWiper sets the value to 1, which prohibits access via RDP.
5/8
RDP access denied
The purpose of this action is not entirely clear. It is possible that in this way the Trojan developer is trying
to make life more difficult for the security and IT specialists who will be involved in responding to the
incident - due to this setting, they will not be able to remotely connect to the infected system without
additional actions.
Data destruction
To destroy user files, CryWiper generates a sequence of data using the well-known pseudo-random
number generator "Mersenne Vortex" and writes this data instead of the original file content.
When searching for custom files, CryWiper skips those that have extensions or are located in the
directories indicated in the table.
Ignored file extensions
Substrings in the path to ignored directories
.exe
C:\Windows
.dll
tmp
.lnk
winnt
.sys
temp
.msi
thumb
.CRY
System Volume Information
Boot
Windows
Trend Micro
Files with corrupted content receive an additional .CRY extension .
6/8
Part of the procedure that implements the Mersenne Vortex PRNG. Characteristic constants are
distinguished
It is noteworthy that the exact same algorithm for generating pseudo-random numbers was used by
another viper - IsaacWiper. However, no other relationship between them could be found. In addition,
they were used in attacks on various targets. So, IsaacWiper was seen in attacks on the public sector in
Ukraine, and CryWiper, according to our data, attacked an organization in the Russian Federation.
Part of a procedure that destroys the contents of files
CryWiper disguises itself as a ransomware and stores ransom demands in the README.txt file. The text
of the requirements uses typical ransomware language, and also provides the Bitcoin wallet address for
paying the ransom, the email address for contacting the attackers, and the infection ID.
The CryWiper ID string is fixed, it is contained in the body of the Trojan and does not change from launch
to launch. In most ransomware, the ID is unique for each victim and is needed by attackers to determine
7/8
which victim paid the ransom and which did not. Although there are exceptions to this rule: if a new
Trojan sample is collected for each attack, then sometimes the ID is left fixed or even not used at all.
One way or another, CryWiper deliberately destroys the contents of files, which means that it makes no
sense for attackers to distinguish one victim from another - there is nothing to decrypt after infection
anyway.
Text of CryWiper requirements
Relationship with other families
In terms of code and functionality, CryWiper is a new malware that is not related to existing families.
However, among vipers, the generation of random values ​​\u200b\u200bwith the help of the Mersenne
Vortex is rarely used - simpler options are more common. The choice of algorithm in CryWiper coincides
with the previously mentioned IsaaсWiper - the only one of the popular wipers that generates pseudo-
random values ​​using this algorithm.
We found another rather interesting intersection with other malware when analyzing the email address in
the note. It turned out that this address had already been used before, but not in wipers: it was contained
in several ransomware samples (for example, MD5: 4A42F739CE694DB7B3CDD3C233CE7FB1 ,
71D9E6EE26D46C4DBB3D8E6DF19DDA7D , 0C6D33DA653230F56A7168E73F144 ) . Two of them
belong to the well-known Trojan-Ransom.Win32.Xorist ransomware family, and the third is a lesser-
known example from the Trojan-Ransom.MSIL.Agent family. The earliest example using this address is
dated mid-June 2017.
Conclusion
CryWiper positions itself as a ransomware program, that is, it claims that the victim's files are encrypted
and, if a ransom is paid, they can be restored. However, this is a hoax: in fact, the data has been
destroyed and cannot be returned. The activity of CryWiper once again shows that the payment of the
ransom does not guarantee the recovery of files.
8/8
In many cases, wiper and ransomware incidents are caused by insufficient network security, and it is the
strengthening of protection that should be paid attention to. We assume that the number of cyberattacks,
including those using wipers, will grow, largely due to the unstable situation in the world. Therefore, the
following will help reduce the likelihood of compromise and data loss during attacks by wipers and
ransomware.
Behavioral file analysis security solutions that detect and block malware, such as KES .
MDR - and SOC services that allow timely detection of an intrusion and take action to respond.
Dynamic analysis of mail attachments and blocking of malicious files and URLs. This will make
email attacks, one of the most common vectors, more difficult. Such functionality is available, for
example, in Kaspersky Anti Targeted Attack (KATA) .
Conducting regular penetration testing and RedTeam projects. This will help to identify
vulnerabilities in the organization's infrastructure, protect them, and thereby significantly reduce the
attack surface for intruders.
Threat data monitoring. To detect and block malicious activity in a timely manner, it is necessary to
have up-to-date information about the tactics, tools, and infrastructure of intruders. This requires
threat data feeds, such as Kaspersky Threat Data Feeds .
IoC
14808919a8c40ccada6fb056b7fd7373 - Trojan-Ransom.Win64.CryWiper.a 

c:\windows\system32\browserupdate.exe - path to the Trojan sample on the system 

hxxp://82.221.141.8/IYJHNkmy3XNZ - C&C server
