APT43: An investigation into the North Korean
group’s cybercrime operations
THURSDAY, APRIL 20, 2023 | VICENTE DÍAZ | LEAVE A COMMENT
Introduction 
As recently reported by our Mandiant's colleagues, APT43 is a threat actor
believed to be associated with North Korea. APT43’s main targets include
governmental institutions, research groups, think tanks, business services,
and the manufacturing sector, with most victims located in the United
States and South Korea. The group uses a variety of techniques and tools
to conduct espionage, sabotage, and theft operations, including spear
phishing and credential harvesting.
From VirusTotal we wanted to contribute to a better understanding of this
actor’s latest activity based on their malware toolset’s telemetry, including
geographical distribution, lookups, submissions, le types, detection ratios,
and efcacy of crowdsourced YARA rules for the IOCs attributed by
Mandiant to this threat actor. All the data provided in this post is also
available for VirusTotal users through VT Intelligence. It can be obtained
by aggregating Telemetry and Commonalities from a set of IOCs, which
you can do using a VT Intelligence search, Collection or Graph. 
Malware artifacts
File type distribution
We used Indicators of Compromise (IOCs) attributed to APT43 by
Mandiant to collect telemetry on the threat actor’s latest activity, resulting
in the following le type distribution: 
Microsoft Word documents (docx) are the most common le format
among the samples we analyzed. This suggests that APT43 relies heavily
on Microsoft Word documents as a vector for delivering malicious
payloads or exploiting vulnerabilities. We also found that most of these
les used macros as their infection technique, while only a few of them
exploited the CVE-2017-0199 vulnerability, which allows attackers to run
malicious code on target systems by embedding malicious links in the docx
le. 
The le type distribution also reveals interesting patterns. For example, we
can see that there are more pedll les than peexe les, even though both
are executable formats. Further analysis of the pedll les revealed that the
majority of them used the T1129 MITRE ATT&CK technique, which
involves executing malicious payloads via loading shared modules. Another
example is that there are more hwp les than doc les, even though both
are word processing formats. This may indicate that APT43 targets
specic regions or organizations that use Hangul Word Processor (HWP),
a popular software in South Korea.
Lookups and submissions timeline
The oldest of the samples we analyzed, a portable executable, was
uploaded in July 2018 from the United Kingdom.  
The initial submission triggered only ve positive detections, but after
subsequent submissions from South Korea and Italy, the latest one being
on March 30, there are now more than 40 detections. This is an important
remark on how typical AV detections evolve protection as new techniques
and artifacts are discovered.   
For user queries (lookups) now associated with APT43, which speak of the
interest of VirusTotal’s users on particular samples, there was a peak
around April 2021, maybe related to some particular APT43 campaign.
The plateau starting July 2022 might be related to security companies
monitoring this actor’s activity. The very recent peak in April 2023 is most
likely related to the publication of APT43, which revamped the interest
from security analysts on this actor and related artifacts. 
From January to April this year, most of the submissions came from South
Korea, and the le type most associated with these submissions was the
docx le. For lookups, most of them are from the United States with apk
les being the most looked up, followed by docx, text, html, powershell, and
peexe.
Geographical distribution
File sample submissions and lookups are important indicators of cyber
threat activity and awareness. By analyzing the geographical distribution
of these activities, we can gain insights into the regions that are most
affected by or interested in a particular threat actor or campaign.
According to our telemetry data, the top countries for le sample
submission are South Korea, the United States, Italy, Israel, and the United
Kingdom.
South Korea stands out as the country with the most le sample
submissions, accounting for almost half of the total submissions. This is not
surprising, given that South Korea is (probably) the primary target of
APT43, as pointed out by Mandiant. Submissions of the identied samples
are observed from July 2018 to April 2023. 
On the other hand, South Korea ranks third in le sample lookups which is
consistent with their leading position in le sample submissions. This is
remarkable given South Korea’s number of VT submitters, well below top
10 countries.
Interestingly, Turkey stands out as the country with the second highest
number of lookups, even if they are not among top submitters. This may
suggest that Turkey is either a victim or a conduit of North Korean cyber
attacks. Lookups of the identied samples are observed from October
2020 to April 2023.
Detections
Analysis from the commonalities tool reveals the most common threat
categories as trojan, downloader and dropper. Of the identied samples,
32% of the samples with threat names assigned to them are labeled
‘kimsuky’. Mandiant’s report mentions kimsuky as being used by multiple
companies in their public statements on APT43’s activities.
To get a sense of the detection distribution among the samples we
analyzed, we divided them into four categories: 
• 15 or more detections, 
• less than 5 detections, 
• between 10 and 15 detections, and 
• between 5 and 10 detections. 
The most common category was for 15 or more detections, representing
83% of all samples. On the other hand, samples with less than 5 detections
came in at 9.7%. The other two categories, between 5 and 10 detections
and between 10 and 15 detections, came in at 2.4% and 4.8%, respectively.
MITRE ATT&CK
During our analysis of the samples using the commonalities tool, we
observed several MITRE ATT&CK techniques adopted to APT43 to
compromise and exltrate data from their targets. VirusTotal extracts
TTPs from samples by detonating them in different sandboxes and using
tools such as CAPA. Among the techniques, the most prevalent ones were:
• T1082: System Information Discovery
• T1083: File and Directory Discovery
• T1129: Execution through Module Load
• T1055: Process Injection
• T1071: Application Layer Protocol
Crowdsourced YARA rules
Of all the samples analyzed, quite a few of them triggered some
crowdsourced YARA rules. The YARA rule that detected quite a few of the
samples was one created by InQuest Labs, Ruleset:
Ofce_Document_with_VBA_Project. The rule was created to detect any
Ofce document with a VBA project in them. While a VBA project within
an Ofce document is used for automating tasks, it can also be used to
perform a range of malicious actions such as stealing sensitive data,
installing malware, and modifying or deleting data. It can even be used in
phishing attacks where the emails contain attachments with malicious VBA
macros. In Mandiant’s publication, they point out APT43’s use of
SPICYTUNA, which is a VBA downloader. This rule could be used as a soft
signal.
Another crowdsourced YARA rule that detected a few of the analyzed
samples was one by Florian Roth, which detects the Ghost419 RAT used
by the Gold Dragon malware: GoldDragon_Ghost419_RAT. Mandiant
reports that the malware extracts a payload from a hwp document and
writes it to a startup directory resulting in the new le being executed
when the current user logs in.
A sample using the Gh0st RAT malware was detected by one of the
crowdsourced rules: GhostDragon_Gh0stRAT. The malware is a backdoor
written in C++ that communicates via a custom binary protocol over TCP
or UDP, as reported by Mandiant.
Collections
Collections are how our users can group different indicators in a shareable
set. This has great benets, such as providing a name and description,
external references, attribution, etc. In addition it helps working with large
datasets and obtaining commonalities, telemetry and other aggregated
data. Other than this, we daily create dozens of collections based on
OSINT security incidents and publications.
During our analysis of the samples, we observed that several of them
belonged to two different collections created by AlienVaultOTX: APT43:
North Korean Group Uses Cybercrime to Fund Espionage Operations and
Analysis of Smoke Screen in APT campaign aimed at Korea and America.
For the rst collection, we observed that it contained a variety of le types
such as pedll, peexe, docx, php, and powershell in that order. The second
collection was different, however, as it contained only two le types. We
found that the majority of the les were docx les which accounted for
over 90% of the samples, and the remaining were peexe les.
Conclusions
This blog post sheds light on the activities of APT43, a threat actor
operating on behalf of the North Korean regime. We have used
VirusTotal’s features to explore the le type and geographical
distributions, detections, ATT&CK techniques, collections, and
crowdsourced YARA rules related to the threat actor’s campaign. We hope
that this post has provided some insights into the capabilities and
techniques of APT43, and how VirusTotal can help to monitor and
investigate such campaigns. 
We hope you found this useful, and please reach out to us if you have any
suggestions or just want to share feedback.
Happy hunting!
