1/11
www.trendmicro.com
/en_us/research/23/a/earth-bogle-campaigns-target-middle-east-with-geopolitical-lures.html
Earth Bogle: Campaigns Target the Middle East with
Geopolitical Lures
⋮ 1/17/2023
We discovered an active campaign ongoing since at least mid-2022 which uses Middle Eastern
geopolitical-themed lures to distribute NjRAT (also known as Bladabindi) to infect victims across the
Middle East and North Africa.
By: Peter Girnus, Aliakbar Zahravi
January 17, 2023
Read time: 5 min (1249 words)
While threat hunting, we found an active campaign using Middle Eastern geopolitical themes as a lure to
target potential victims in the Middle East and Africa. In this campaign we have labeled Earth Bogle, the
threat actor uses public cloud storage services such as files.fm and failiem.lv to host malware, while
compromised web servers distribute NjRAT.
NjRAT (also known as Bladabindi) is a remote access trojan (RAT) malware first discovered in 2013. It is
primarily used to gain unauthorized access and control over infected computers and has been used in
various cyberattacks to target individuals and organizations in the Middle East. Users and security teams
are recommended to keep their systems’ security solutions updated and their respective cloud
infrastructures properly secured to defend against this threat.
Routine
2/11
Figure 1. Attack kill chain
The malicious file is hidden inside a Microsoft Cabinet (CAB) archive file masquerading as a “sensitive”
audio file, named using a geopolitical theme as a lure to entice victims to open it. The distribution
mechanism could be via social media (Facebook and Discord appear to be favored among these
campaigns), file sharing (OneDrive), or a phishing email. The malicious CAB file contains an obfuscated
VBS (Virtual Basic Script) dropper responsible for delivering the next stage of the attack.
Once the malicious CAB file is downloaded, the obfuscated VBS script runs to fetch the malware from a
compromised or spoofed host. It then retrieves a PowerShell script responsible for injecting NjRat into the
compromised victim’s machine.
Use of Middle Eastern Geopolitical Themes as Lures
The initial CAB files have exceptionally low detection rates on Virus Total (SHA256:
a7e2b399b9f0be7e61977b51f6d285f8d53bd4b92d6e11f74660791960b813da and
4985b6e286020de70f0b74d457c7e387463ea711ec21634e35bc46707dfe4c9b), which allows the
attackers to remain undetected and spread their attack across the region. The group behind the
campaign uses public cloud hosting services to host malicious CAB files and uses themed lures to entice
Arabic speakers into opening the infected file.
3/11
Figure 2. Malicious CAB file hosted on cloud sharing services
One of the malicious CAB files’ filename translates to “A voice call between Omar, the reviewer of the
command of Tariq bin Ziyad’s force, with an Emirati officer.cab”. The attacker uses the lure of a
supposedly sensitive voice call between an Emirati military officer and a member of the Tariq bin Ziyad
(TBZ) Militia, a powerful Libyan faction. The file lures victims in the region into opening the file by
insinuating a false link between the UAE and a group associated with war crimes, appealing to political
interests and emotional appeals. These lures are consistent with a campaign disclosed in December
2022 that used Facebook advertisements on spoofed Middle Eastern news outlets’ pages, which were
shared and pushed to other users by unsuspecting mules.
This malicious CAB file contains an obfuscated VBS script that functions as the agent responsible for
delivering the next payload. When a victim opens the malicious CAB file and runs the VBS file, the
second stage payload is retrieved.
Delivering the PowerShell Payload
The second stage payload is an obfuscated VBS script file masquerading as an image file (SHA256:
6560ef1253f239a398cc5ab237271bddd35b4aa18078ad253fd7964e154a2580). When this malicious file
is run, a malicious PowerShell script is retrieved.
Figure 3. Malicious VBS file fetches malicious PowerShell script
4/11
Figure 4. Deobfuscated VBS script
The domain delivering the malicious PowerShell script is an infected or spoofed host with documented
affiliations with the Libyan Army, and a quick check on the domain gpla[.]gov[.]ly shows it was registered
in 2019.
Figure 5. Whois information of gpla[.]gov[.]ly
Similar campaigns have suggested the creation, use, and abuse of fake social media accounts claiming
to belong to reputable organizations to serve advertisements with links to public cloud sharing platforms
which contain malicious payloads to unsuspecting victims. This allows the threat actors to:
1. Infect users directly through clicks on these malicious links.
2. Use geopolitical-themed lures and abuse social sharing features to deliver malicious payloads and
spread to a wider audience.
We also noted that the domain gpla[.]gov[.]ly has a history of compromise going back to at least 2021.
5/11
Figure 6. Previously defaced page of gpla[.]gov[.]ly (Screenshot taken from Zone-h)
Second stage Dropper Overview
The second stage dropper (SHA256:
78ac9da347d13a9cf07d661cdcd10cb2ca1b11198e4618eb263aec84be32e9c8) is an obfuscated
PowerShell script that drops five files in total: two binaries, a VBS script, a PowerShell script, and a
Windows batch script.
Each module has the following functionality:
Payload_1: Process injector
Payload_2: NjRAT
gJhkEJvwBCHe.vbs: Executes rYFFCeKHlIT.bat
rYFFCeKHlIT.bat: Executes KxFXQGVBtb.ps1
KxFXQGVBtb.ps1: Load Payload_1 and Payload_2 into the memory and inject NjRAT into the
aspnet_compiler.exe via payload_1
Upon execution, the second stage dropper kills the following .NET-related processes on the infected
system. After which, “KxFXQGVBtB.ps1” executes the “aspnet_compler.exe” in conjunction with the
process injector to inject NjRAT.            

[Reflection.Assembly]::Load($MyS).GetType('NewPE2.PE').'GetMethod'('Execute').Invoke($null,
{[OBJECT[]]}, ($JKGHJKHGJKJK,$serv));           
6/11
Figure 7. Terminate various legit .NET-related processes
The dropper further drops "rYFFCeKHlIT.bat" in C:\Users\Public and creates a directory called
"WindowsHost" in C:\ProgramData\ to store the VBScript file "gJhkEJvwBCHe.vbs". On deobfuscation,
gJhkEJvwBCHe.vbs runs the rYFFCeKHlIT.bat file, responsible for executing another PowerShell script
called "KxFXQGVBtb.ps1" that contains a bypass PowerShell execution policy flag.
Figure 8. Further dropping rYFFCeKHlIT.bat and executing a PowerShell script that contains
a bypass
Figure 9. Deobfuscated gJhkEJvwBCHe.vbs
7/11
"KxFXQGVBtB.ps1" is the final PowerShell dropper responsible for loading the NjRAT binary into memory
and injecting it into the legitimate .NET binary file called "aspnet_compiler.exe" via the process injector.
The PowerShell script uses the “[Reflection.Assembly]::Load" method to load the process injector
“($Mys)” into the memory. It then invokes a method called 'Execute' with two parameters. The first
parameter is a full path to the PEfile to inject ("C:\Windows\Microsoft.NET\Framework\
<VERSION>\aspnet_compiler.exe"), and the second parameter is the primary payload NjRAT ($serv).
8/11
Figure 10. NjRAT loader/injector
Figure 11. The deobfuscated KxFXQGVBtB.ps1 shows NjRAT ($serv) being injected into the
aspnet_compiler.exe process via the NewPE32.PE ($Mys) process injector.
The following snippet demonstrates the process injector functions. The file has been obfuscated via
SmartAssembly:
9/11
Figure 12. PE injector overview
The final payload of this campaign is NjRAT, allowing attackers to conduct a myriad of intrusive activities
on infected systems such as stealing sensitive information, taking screenshots, getting a reverse shell,
process, registry and file manipulation, uploading/downloading files, and performing other operations.
10/11
Figure 13. NjRAT configuration
The dropper achieves persistence on an infected system by adding the directory
C:\ProgramData\WindowsHost to the "User Shell” folders and "Shell” folders to the startup keys
accordingly.
Figure 14. Malware persistence techniques
Conclusion
This case demonstrates that threat actors will leverage public cloud storage as malware file servers,
combined with social engineering techniques appealing to people’s sentiments such as regional
geopolitical themes as lures, to infect targeted populations. Furthermore, governments weakened by
regional conflict are at a higher risk for compromise, wherein threat actors and advanced persistent threat
(APT) groups could compromise and use government infrastructure in targeted campaigns. This is
compounded by the ability to share cloud storage content via advertising and social media, presenting an
opportunity for threat actors and APT groups to reach a wider infection radius.
Organizations can protect themselves by remaining vigilant against phishing attacks and skeptical
regarding sensational topics and themes abused online as lures. Users should be wary of opening
suspicious archive files such as CAB files, especially from public sources where the risks of compromise
are high. Security teams should be aware of the dynamic nature of conflict zones when considering a
11/11
security posture. Organizations can also consider a cutting edge multilayered defensive strategy that can
detect, scan, and block malicious URLs.
Indicators of Compromise (IOCs)
Download the full list of IOCs here.
