1/7
www.sentinelone.com
/labs/the-israel-hamas-war-cyber-domain-state-sponsored-activity-of-interest/
The Israel-Hamas War | Cyber Domain State-Sponsored
Activity of Interest
Tom Hegel ⋮
By Tom Hegel and Aleksandar Milenkoski 
Since the start of the Israel-Hamas war, the cyber domain has played a critical role in the conflict, albeit in
ways the world may not have expected. Immediately following the attacks from Hamas on October 7th,
social media became a hotbed of disinformation, inaccurate self-described OSINT investigators, and
public confusion. Unfortunately, leading social media platforms continue to fail at stopping the spread of
disinformation regarding this war. We will continue to see it abused as a go-to method to sway public
perception of events with no signs of it ending soon.
However, outside of social media information abuse and opportunistic-hacktivism, we must not forget the
likelihood of targeted attacks originating from specific, state-sponsored threat actors. Understanding and
closely monitoring all-aspects of the quickly evolving conflict within the digital domain is critical as such
targeted attacks will translate into real-world consequences. While we continue to collaborate privately
with partners, we also seek to bolster the wider industry knowledge about where to place our efforts.
This is an updated compendium of actors for cybersecurity researchers, analysts, and network defenders
to watch closely. These actors have potential for significant involvement as the war continues, including
APTs across Hamas, Hezbollah, and Iran-based clusters of activity. While state-sponsored APTs should
remain a strong focus, we must also carefully monitor the increasingly common use of hacktivist
personas used to cloak state-sponsored operations.
In this post, we share recommended and publicly accessible information in effort to streamline the
community’s understanding of relevant actors across historical reports for reference. In addition, we are
sharing our perspective of public actor naming overlaps. Please note that each source of public reporting
may perform attribution and actor clustering uniquely from their perspective. Nonetheless, these sources
should serve as starting points for readers looking to catch up on relevant open-source intelligence for
your own defense posturing and analysis needs.
Hamas -Aligned Clusters
Arid Viper
Aliases:
APT-C-23
Grey Karkadann
Desert Falcon
Mantis
2/7
Description:
Arid Viper is a threat group conducting cyber espionage and information theft operations since at least
2017, predominantly against targets in the Middle East. Based primarily on the geopolitical context of its
activities, Arid Viper is suspected to operate on behalf of Hamas with further conclusive information
needed to solidify this assessment. For example, the Israeli Defence Forces (IDF) have reported on a
campaign targeting soldiers stationed near the Gaza border, which is suspected to be orchestrated by
Hamas. This campaign has been separately attributed with medium confidence to Arid Viper based on
victimology and similarities with previous activities attributed to this actor such as overlaps in initial
infection techniques.
Targeting individuals is a common practice of Arid Viper. This includes pre-selected Palestinian and
Israeli high-profile targets as well as broader groups, typically from critical sectors such as defense and
government organizations, law enforcement, and political parties or movements. Common initial infection
vectors include social engineering and phishing attacks using themed lure documents. The latter often
involves establishing rapport with targets over social media, such as Facebook and Instagram, with
catfishing being a frequently used technique.
Arid Viper uses a variety of malware as part of its operations, including stagers, backdoors, and mobile
spyware applications for the iOS and Android platforms. Arid Viper’s malware is actively maintained and
upgraded to meet the group’s operational requirements. This threat actor has consistently demonstrated
innovation by adopting new malware development practices across a range of programming and scripting
languages, such as Delphi, Go, Python, and C++.
Gaza Cybergang
Aliases:
Molerats
TA402
Gaza Hackers Team
Moonlight
Extreme Jackal
Aluminum Saratoga
JEA/Jerusalem Electronic Army (Low to Medium Confidence)
Description:
Gaza Cybergang is a threat actor that has been active since at least 2012. The group primarily targets
throughout the Middle East, including Israel and Palestine, while also less-observed in the EU and US.
Targeted entities include government, defense, energy, financial, media, technology, telecommunication,
and civil society. Current assessment of Gaza Cybergang indicates a medium to high level of confidence
in Hamas affiliation.
The group has historically used a variety of custom and publicly available tools in their attacks, showing a
notable preference for spear phishing as a method of initial access. They have been known to use
malicious documents and email attachments to deliver malware and link lures, and they often deploy
3/7
implants to maintain persistence on compromised systems. Tools include Molerat Loader, XtremeRAT,
SharpStage, DropBook, Spark, Pierogi, PoisonIvy, and many others observed uniquely over the years.
The overall objectives of Gaza Cybergang appear to be primarily intelligence collection and espionage.
They seek to gather intelligence, monitor political developments in the region, and support their cause
through cyber activities. The group has been active for many years, and their persistence and adaptability
in the face of evolving tensions make it a notable actor in the cyber threat landscape moving forward.
Hezbollah-Aligned Clusters
Plaid Rain
Aliases:
Aqua Dev 1
Polonium
Description:
Plaid Rain is a threat actor first documented in 2022 with a primary focus on targeting entities in Israel
across a broad range of verticals, including defense, government, manufacturing, and financial
organizations. Plaid Rain is considered to be based in Lebanon, however, its activities indicate potential
coordination with Iran-nexus actors affiliated with Iran’s Ministry of Intelligence and Security (MOIS).
Some indicators supporting this assessment include observed overlaps in targeting and TTPs. The
potential collaboration between MOIS and Plaid Rain positions this threat group in the nexus of actors
that serve as proxies, providing plausible deniability to the government of Iran, such as Cobalt Sapling.
For initial infection, Plaid Rain is suspected to rely primarily on vulnerability exploitation, downstream
compromises, and stolen credentials. The group’s arsenal consists of a wide range of well-maintained
custom tooling exemplified by the Creepy malware toolset. Plaid Rain’s malware supports a broad range
of complementing functionalities following the latest trends in the malware landscape. For example, the
CreepyDrive malware uses Cloud services for command and control purposes, likely in an attempt to
evade detection by making malicious traffic look legitimate.
Lebanese Cedar
Aliases:
Volatile Cedar
DeftTorero
Description:
Lebanese Cedar is a lesser-reported APT with a history of successful intrusions across Lebanon, Israel,
Palestine, Egypt, United States, United Kingdom, and more. The group was first observed in 2015 and
has since maintained limited security industry attention. Similar to Plaid Rain, we associate Lebanese
Cedar with Lebanese Shiite militant group Hezbollah attribution as well as potential coordination with
Iran-nexus actors affiliated with the Ministry of Intelligence and Security (MOIS).
4/7
Initial access methods best observed have been centered around the compromise of victim web servers
via n-day vulnerabilities for the deployment of webshells, including ASPXSpy, devilzshell, and Caterpillar.
Further use of Meterpreter and their custom Explosive RAT have been associated with objectives around
maintaining access through theft of legitimate network credentials, ultimately pursuing espionage
objectives.
Relevant Iranian Clusters
Iran hosts a diverse array of state-sponsored threat actors whose activities quickly expand past the
specific focus on the Israel-Hamas war. These threat actors exhibit variability in terms of size, capability,
and motivation, and they have been responsible for a wide spectrum of cyber operations. While some
have clear affiliations with the Iranian government, many Iranian hacktivist personas claim to operate
independently. It is crucial to acknowledge that emerging hacktivist collectives may serve as a means to
obscure state sponsorship, influencing public opinion and concealing attribution of offensive actions. We
strongly recommend that media outlets and industry colleagues exercise caution when publicly
disseminating content produced by hacktivist collectives. The propagation of their claims, viewpoints, and
actions aligns with an overarching mission, and endorsing these activities contributes to their
success.Nonetheless, the diversity and adaptability of Iranian cyber threat actors make them a significant
and multifaceted component of the global threat landscape moving forward. As we monitor the evolving
situation in the Middle East, it is imperative to focus on Iran as a potential origin of both direct cyber
offensive actions and proxy operations supported by Iran-linked groups like Hamas and Hezbollah.
ShroudedSnooper
Aliases:
Storm-0861
Scarred Manticore
Description:
ShroudedSnooper has been part of multiple recent intrusions across the Middle East, including Israel
within the past two months, and elsewhere since at least 2020. Most recent observations and activity we
can confirm, center around intrusions across the telecommunication and government sectors. The group
is attributed to Iran’s Ministry of Intelligence and Security (MOIS).
Our current understanding of the group is that they operate for intelligence collection and initial access to
other MOIS entities. Initial access methods for ShroudedSnooper have, and potentially continue to be,
accomplished through the compromise of publicly accessible web servers via n-day vulnerabilities. As
observed in the recent Israeli telecom intrusions, the group has then made use of backdoors mimicking
enterprise security software.
Cobalt Sapling
Aliases:
Moses Staff
5/7
Abraham’s Ax
Marigold Sandstorm
Description:
‘Moses Staff’ and ‘Abraham’s Ax’ are hacktivist personas known for their anti-Israel rhetoric,  disruptive
and data exfiltration attacks, and penchant for leaking stolen data online along with propaganda content
in the form of videos or imagery. Moses Staff and Abraham’s Ax are potentially distinct groups. Since the
emergence of Moses Staff in 2021 and Abraham’s Ax in 2022 proclaiming allegiance with Hezbollah, the
groups have continued to separately maintain their online presence. However, they share iconography,
content editing and infrastructure management practices. This, and the alignment of their activities with
the geopolitical interests of Iran, suggests that the two groups are likely part of a single cluster (also
referred to as Cobalt Sapling) and serve as proxy groups providing plausible deniability to Iran.
Moses Staff has traditionally focused its efforts on business and government organizations primarily
within Israel. In contrast, Abraham’s Ax has asserted responsibility for attacks on entities located outside
of Israel but with geopolitical relevance to the country. For example, the alleged intrusions into Saudi
Arabian government entities by Abraham’s Ax may have been an attempt to counter the normalization of
relations between Israel and Saudi Arabia previously conditioned by resolving the Israeli-Palestinian
issue.
Although the threat intelligence research community has identified custom offensive tooling observed in
Moses Staff attacks, such as StrifeWater, PyDCrypt and DCSrv, we do not exclude the possibility of
Moses Staff and Abraham’s Ax sharing tooling and operational practices making accurate clustering
challenging at this time. Operations attributed to Moses Staff have involved RATs and ransomware with
no indications of financial motivations, but rather disruption, destruction, and concealment of cyber
espionage activities.
APPENDIX: Recommended Public Reporting
Arid Viper
02/2015: Operation Arid Viper: Bypassing the Iron Dome – Trend Micro
02/2015: The Desert Falcons targeted attacks – GReAT
2017: Delphi Used To Score Against Palestine – Cisco TALOS
04/2021: Taking Action Against Arid Viper – Meta
02/2022: Arid Viper APT targets Palestine with new wave of politically themed phishing attacks,
malware – Cisco TALOS
03/2022: What is Arid Gopher? – Deep Instinct
04/2022: Operation Bearded Barbie: APT-C-23 Campaign Targeting Israeli Officials – Cybereason
04/2023: Mantis: New Tooling Used in Attacks Against Palestinian Targets – Symantec
10/2023: Arid Viper Disguising Mobile Spyware as Updates for Non-Malicious Android Applications
Gaza Cybergang
11/2012: Systematic cyber attacks against Israeli and Palestinian targets going on for a year –
Norman
6/7
08/2013: Operation Molerats: Middle East Cyber Attacks Using Poison Ivy – FireEye
06/2014: Molerats, Here for Spring! – FireEye
04/2015: Attacks against Israeli & Palestinian interests – PwC
09/2015: Gaza cybergang, where’s your IR team? – GReAT
01/2016: Operation DustySky – Clearsky
06/2016: Operation DustySky Part 2 – Clearsky
10/2016: Moonlight – Targeted attacks in the Middle East – Vectra
11/2016: MoleRats: there’s more to the naked eye – Pwc
01/2017: Downeks and Quasar RAT Used in Recent Targeted Attacks Against Governments –
Unit42
10/2017: Gaza Cybergang – updated activity in 2017 – GReAT
01/2018: The TopHat Campaign: Attacks Within The Middle East Region Using Popular Third-Party
Services – Unit42
04/2018: Operation Parliament, who is doing what? – GReAT
04/2019: The Gaza cybergang and its SneakyPastes campaign – GReAT
05/2019: Israel Defense Force bombing of alleged operations center
10/2019: Suspected Molerats’ New Attack in the Middle East – 360
11/2019: Report on the attack on the Palestinian government by the APT organization “Pat the
Bear” (Translated) – Rising
01/2020: Analysis of Threat Groups Molerats and APT-C-37 – AT&T
02/2020: New Cyber Espionage Campaigns Targeting Palestinians – Part 1: The Spark Campaign
– Cybereason
03/2020: Molerats Delivers Spark Backdoor to Government and Telecommunications Organizations
– Unit42
12/2020: New Malware Arsenal Abuses Cloud Platforms in Middle East Espionage Campaign –
Cybereason
12/2020: Molerats APT: New Malware and Techniques in Middle East Espionage Campaign –
Cybereason
04/2021: Threat Group Uses Voice Changing Software in Espionage Attempt – Cado
06/2021: New TA402 Mole Rats Malware Targets Governments in the Middle East – Proofpoint
01/2022: New espionage attack by Molerats APT targeting users in the Middle East – Zscaler
02/2022: Ugg Boots 4 Sale: A Tale of Palestinian-Aligned Espionage
10/2022: Analysis of a Management IP Address linked to Molerats APT – Team Cymru
Plaid Rain
06/2022: Exposing POLONIUM activity and infrastructure targeting Israeli organizations – Microsoft
10/2022: Polonium Targets Israel With Creepy Malware – ESET
12/2022: Polonium APT Group: Uncovering New Elements – Deep Instinct 
Lebanese Cedar
03/2015: Volatile Cedar Technical Report – Checkpoint
03/2015: Sinkholing Volatile Cedar DGA Infrastructure – GReAT
06/2015: New Data: Volatile Cedar Malware Campaign – Checkpoint
7/7
01/2021: “Lebanese Cedar” APT – Global Lebanese Espionage Campaign Leveraging Web
Servers – Clearsky
10/2022: DeftTorero: tactics, techniques and procedures of intrusions revealed – Kaspersky
ShroudedSnooper
09/2023: New ShroudedSnooper actor targets telecommunications firms in the Middle East with
novel Implants – Talos
10/2023: From Albania to the Middle East: The Scarred Manticore Is Listening
Cobalt Sapling
02/2022: StrifeWater RAT: Iranian APT Moses Staff Adds New Trojan to Ransomware Operations –
Cybereason
02/2022: Moses Staff Campaigns Against Israeli Organizations Span Several Months – Fortinet
01/2023: Abraham’s Ax Likely Linked to Moses Staff – Secureworks
11/2021: Uncovering MosesStaff Techniques: Ideology Over Money – Checkpoint
