1/10
January 28, 2022
Indian Army Personnel Face Remote Access Trojan Attacks
blog.cyble.com/2022/01/28/indian-army-personnel-face-remote-access-trojan-attacks/
Cyble Research Labs has come across a Twitter post wherein security researchers have brought to focus an
Android malware that pretends to be the legitimate ARMAAN application. The Army Mobile Aadhaar App
Network (ARMAAN) is an umbrella application covering various facets of information & services concerning
all ranks of the Indian Army, and the app is used only by Indian Army personnel. Threat Actors (TAs) have
customized the legitimate ARMAAN app and added malicious code into it.
During our analysis, we observed that this malicious application uses the icon, name, and even source code
of the legitimate ARMAAN app. To create this malicious application, attackers have added an extra package
in the legitimate application’s source code to enable it to perform RAT activities.
From our analysis, we concluded that upon successful execution, this malicious application could steal
sensitive data such as contacts, call logs, SMSes, location, files from external storage, record audio, etc.,
from the victims’ devices.
Technical Analysis
APK Metadata Information
App Name:  ARMAAN
Package Name: in.gov.armaan
SHA256 Hash: 80c0d95fc2d8308d70388c0492d41eb087a20015ce8a7ea566828e4f1b5510d0
Figure 1 shows the metadata information of the application.
2/10
Figure 1 – App Metadata Information
The below figure shows the application icon and name displayed on the Android device.
Figure 2 – App Icon and Name
The malware requests for Aadhar numbers, which is also a feature of the legitimate ARMAAN application, as
shown in the figure below.
3/10
Figure 3 – App Requests KYC Documents
When the user inputs the AADHAAR number, the malware communicates with the official ARMAAN server to
verify the account, as shown below.
Figure 4 – App Communicates to Legitimate Server
On comparing the legitimate ARMAAN application and the modified malicious ARMAAN application, we
identified that the TAs have added an extra package containing malicious code, as shown in the figure below.
4/10
Figure 5 – Added Source Code Package in Malicious App
Manifest Description
The malware requests the user for 22 different permissions. Out of these, it abuses ten permissions. These
dangerous permissions are listed below.
Permissions
Description
READ_SMS
Access SMSes in the device database (DB).
RECEIVE_SMS
Intercept SMSes received on the victim’s device
READ_CALL_LOG
Access Call Logs
READ_CONTACTS
Access phone contacts.
READ_PHONE_STATE
Allows access to phone state, including the current cellular
network information, the phone number and the serial number of
the phone, the status of any ongoing calls, and a list of any
Phone Accounts registered on the device.
RECORD_AUDIO
Allows the app to record audio with the microphone, which the
attackers can misuse.
ACCESS_COARSE_LOCATION
Allows the app to get the approximate location of the device
network sources such as cell towers and Wi-Fi.
ACCESS_FINE_LOCATION
Allows the app to get the device’s precise location using the
Global Positioning System (GPS).
ACCESS_BACKGROUND_LOCATION
Allows an app to access location in the background.
ACCESS_WIFI_STATE
Allows the app to get information about Wi-Fi connectivity.
We observed added services and receivers entries in the manifest file of the malicious app, as shown in
Figure 6.
5/10
Figure 6 – Added Entries in Manifest
It is also observed in the manifest that the TAs have added dangerous permissions entries such as
READ_CONTACTS, READ_CALL_LOG, RECORD_AUDIO, ACCESS_COARSE_LOCATION, etc. in
modified malicious ARMAAN applications.
Figure 7 – Added Permissions Entry in Malicious APP
Source Code Review
Our static analysis indicated that the malware steals sensitive data such as Contacts, SMSes, and Call logs,
besides recording audio and taking pictures from the camera, etc., on commands from the C&C.
The malware uses a fixed hardcoded array containing the IP’s ASCII values: 173[.]212.220.230 and port:
3617 Details. The malware then converts and uses them for its C&C communication, as shown in Figure 8.
6/10
Figure 8 – Malware Communication
The getAlluserInfo() method has been used to collect the user’s device information such as phone number,
device manufacturer’s details, etc., from the device, as shown in Figure 9.
Figure 9 – Collects User’s Information
Through the getAllSMS() method, we identified that the malware collects SMSs data from the device, as
shown in the below figure.
7/10
Figure 10 – Code to Collect SMSs
The method getAllContacts() has been used to collect Contacts data from the device, as shown below.
Figure 11 – Code to Collect Contacts Data
Method getAllCallLogs() depicts the malware’s ability to collect Call logs data from the device. Refer to Figure
12.
Figure 12 – Code to Collect Call logs
The code snippet shown in the below image depicts the malware’s ability to collect the device’s location data
from the device.
Figure 13 – Collects Location Data from the Device
The image shown below showcases the malware’s code that collects and sends images from the WhatsApp
directory in the device to the server on commands from the TAs.
Figure 14 – Steals Images from WhatsApp Directory
8/10
The method sentMicRecording() shown in the below image depicts the malware’s ability to record mic and
send the recorded data to the server on the TAs command. After the data is sent, the malware deletes the
file.
Figure 15 – Records Mic
The below figure represents the malware’s ability to capture images from the front and back camera and
send the recorded data to the server on the TAs command.
Figure 16 – Capture Images from Front and Back Camera
The malware collects the document files from the device through the remainingDocumentFiles() method
shown in the figure below.
Figure 17 – Code to Collect Document Files
Below are the commands used by the TA to control the infected device:
9/10
Command
Description
D%r6t*
Get SMS data
s%7n@2
Get Contacts data
i*g4#3
Get Call logs data
O@y7J&
Start mic recording
5w$I!7
Get document files
1^R$4t
Get images from the WhatsApp folder
j*7e@4
Click photos from the device camera
A website with the domain name hxxps://armaanapp[.]in was registered around a year ago. It seems that TAs
used this website to deliver malicious versions of the ARMAAN application, as shown in the below figure
below.
Figure 18 – Fake Website
Conclusion
The modified, malicious ARMAAN app poses a serious threat to the Indian Armed Forces. It can perform RAT
activities with the potential to steal Indian Army personnel’s sensitive data, including contacts, call logs,
SMSes, Location, and files from external storage, in addition to the ability to record sensitive audio.
TAs constantly adapt their methods to avoid detection and find new ways to target users through increasingly
sophisticated techniques. Such malicious applications often masquerade as legitimate applications to trick
users into installing them. This situation makes it imperative for users to install applications only after verifying
their authenticity. Apps should only be installed exclusively via the official Google Play Store and other trusted
portals to avoid such attacks.
Our Recommendations
We have listed some essential cybersecurity best practices that create the first line of control against
attackers. We recommend that our readers follow the best practices given below:  
How to prevent malware infection?
Download and install software only from official app stores like Google Play Store or the iOS App Store.
Use a reputed anti-virus and internet security software package on your connected devices, such as
PCs, laptops, and mobile devices.
Use strong passwords and enforce multi-factor authentication wherever possible.
Enable biometric security features such as fingerprint or facial recognition for unlocking the mobile
device where possible.
Be wary of opening any links received via SMS or emails delivered to your phone.
Ensure that Google Play Protect is enabled on Android devices.
Be careful while enabling any permissions.
Keep your devices, operating systems, and applications updated.
10/10
How to identify whether you are infected?
Regularly check the Mobile/Wi-Fi data usage of applications installed in mobile devices.
Keep an eye on the alerts provided by Anti-viruses and Android OS and take necessary actions
accordingly.
What to do when you are infected?
Disable Wi-Fi/Mobile data and remove SIM card – as in some cases, the malware can re-enable the
Mobile Data.
Perform a factory reset.
Remove the application in case a factory reset is not possible.
Take a backup of personal media Files (excluding mobile applications) and perform a device reset.
What to do in case of any fraudulent transaction?
In case of a fraudulent transaction, immediately report it to the concerned bank.
What should banks do to protect their customers?
Banks and other financial entities should educate customers on safeguarding themselves from malware
attacks via telephone, SMSes, or emails. 
MITRE ATT&CK® Techniques
Tactic
Technique ID
Technique Name
Initial Access
T1476
Deliver Malicious App via Other Mean.
Initial Access
T1444
Masquerade as Legitimate Application
Execution
T1575
Native Code
Collection
T1433
Access Call Log
Collection
T1412
Capture SMS Messages
Collection
T1432
Access Contact List
Collection
T1429
Capture Audio
Collection
T1512
Capture Camera
Collection
T1533
Data from Local System
Collection
T1430
Location Tracking
Command and Control
T1436
Commonly Used Ports
Indicators of Compromise (IOCs)
Indicators
Indicator
Type
Description
80c0d95fc2d8308d70388c0492d41eb087a20015ce8a7ea566828e4f1b5510d0
SHA256
Malicious APK
173[.]212.220.230:3617
IP
Address
Malware
Communication
IP
