(eset):research
APT Activity 
IRAN-ALIGNED CYBERATTACKS:  
RISE IN DISRUPTIVE OPERATIONS
October 2023 – March 2024
Report
ESET APT ACTIVITY REPORT
OCTOBER 2023 - MARCH 2024 | 2
Contents
Executive summary
3
Attackers and targets
4
China-aligned groups 
5
Mustang Panda targets the cargo shipping 
industry in Europe
6
Activities against Taiwan
7
Our assessment of the I-SOON leaks
7
Middle East-aligned groups 
9
BladedFeline
10
POLONIUM
10
Summary of Iran-aligned APT group activity
11
Access brokering
11
Impact attacks with wipers and ransomware 12
North Korea-aligned groups 
13
Supply-chain attacks and trojanized installers 14
Evolving attackers’ toolset
15
Russia-aligned groups 
16
Spearphishing as initial access
17
Cyberespionage operation against European 
governments
18
Russia-Ukraine war
18
Other
20
SturgeonPhisher
21
Unlucky Kamran
21
Winter Vivern
22
About ESET
23
OCTOBER 2023 - MARCH 2024 | 3
ESET APT ACTIVITY REPORT
Executive summary          Attackers and targets          China          Middle East          North Korea          Russia          Other          About ESET
Executive summary
This report summarizes notable activities of selected advanced 
persistent threat (APT) groups that were documented by ESET 
researchers from October 2023 until the end of March 2024. The 
highlighted operations are representative of the broader landscape of 
threats we investigated during this period, illustrating the key trends 
and developments, and contain only a fraction of the cybersecurity 
intelligence data provided to customers of ESET’s private APT reports.
In the monitored timeframe, several China-aligned threat actors 
exploited vulnerabilities in public-facing appliances, such as VPNs and 
firewalls, and software, such as Confluence and Microsoft Exchange 
Server, for initial access to targets in multiple verticals. Based on the 
data leak from I-SOON (Anxun), we can confirm that this Chinese 
contractor is indeed engaged in cyberespionage. We track a part of the 
company’s activities under the FishMonger group. In this report, we also 
introduce a new China-aligned APT group, CeranaKeeper, distinguished 
by unique traits yet possibly sharing a digital quartermaster with the 
Mustang Panda group.
Following the Hamas-led attack on Israel in October 2023, we 
detected a significant increase in activity from Iran-aligned threat 
groups. Specifically, MuddyWater and Agrius transitioned from their 
previous focus on cyberespionage and ransomware, respectively, to 
more aggressive strategies involving access brokering and impact 
attacks. Meanwhile, OilRig and Ballistic Bobcat activities saw a 
downturn, suggesting a strategic shift toward more noticeable, "louder" 
operations aimed at Israel. North Korea-aligned groups continued 
to target aerospace and defense companies, and the cryptocurrency 
industry, improving their tradecraft by conducting supply-chain attacks, 
developing trojanized software installers and new malware strains, and 
exploiting software vulnerabilities.
Russia-aligned groups have focused their activities on espionage 
within the European Union and attacks on Ukraine. Furthermore, 
the Operation Texonto campaign, a disinformation and psychological 
operation (PSYOP) uncovered by ESET researchers, has been spreading 
false information about Russian-election-related protests and the 
situation in Ukrainian Kharkiv, fostering uncertainty among Ukrainians 
domestically and abroad.
Additionally, we spotlight a campaign in the Middle East carried out by 
SturgeonPhisher, a group we believe to be aligned with the interests 
of Kazakhstan. We also discuss a watering-hole attack on a regional 
news website about Gilgit-Baltistan, a disputed region administered 
by Pakistan, and lastly, we describe the exploitation of a zero-day 
vulnerability in Roundcube by Winter Vivern, a group we assess to be 
aligned with the interests of Belarus.
ESET products protect our customers’ systems from the malicious 
activities described in this report. Intelligence shared here is based 
mostly on proprietary ESET telemetry data and has been verified by 
ESET researchers, who prepare in-depth technical reports and frequent 
activity updates detailing activities of specific APT groups. These 
threat intelligence analyses, known as ESET APT Reports PREMIUM, 
assist organizations tasked with protecting citizens, critical national 
infrastructure, and high-value assets from criminal and nation-state-
directed cyberattacks.
More information about ESET APT Reports PREMIUM and its delivery 
of high-quality, strategic, actionable, and tactical cybersecurity threat 
intelligence is available at the ESET Threat Intelligence page.
Welcome to the latest issue of the ESET APT Activity Report! 
ESET APT ACTIVITY REPORT
OCTOBER 2023 - MARCH 2024 | 4
Executive summary          Attackers and targets          China          Middle East          North Korea          Russia          Other          About ESET
Government
Engineering & manufacturing
Communications
Non-proﬁt
Education
Middle East
Telecommunications
International organizations
Government
Africa
Government
Education
Healthcare
Retail
Energy
Americas
Government
Energy
Defence
Education
Engineering & manufacturing
Europe
Government
Engineering & manufacturing
Non-proﬁt
Defence
Education
Asia
Attackers and targets
In Asia, the focus of the described campaigns was primarily on government 
organizations, non-profit entities such as Tibetan groups or dissidents, 
and the engineering and manufacturing sectors. In Japan, China-aligned 
MirrorFace showed a marked persistence in its attacks on government 
institutions, indicating a specialized focus within this geographical area. 
Similarly, in the Middle East, threat actors aligned with Iran primarily 
targeted government organizations and other verticals. The most 
significant attention was directed towards Israel, suggesting a geopolitical 
motive behind the threat activity in this region.
Europe experienced a more diverse range of attacks from various threat 
actors. Russia-aligned groups continued to relentlessly target Ukrainian 
infrastructure, with Gamaredon standing out as the most active APT 
group operating in Ukraine, and Sandworm focusing on Ukrainian 
energy infrastructure. Russia-aligned groups also expanded their focus 
on espionage in the European Union, where China-aligned threat actors 
maintain a consistent presence, indicating a continuous interest in 
European affairs by both Russia- and China-aligned groups.
32.5%
24.6%
14.3%
12.7%
7.1%
4.8%
4.0%
Russia-aligned APT groups
China-aligned APT groups
Iran-aligned APT groups
North Korea-aligned APT groups
Other Middle Eastern APT groups
Other Eastern European APT groups
Other Asian APT groups
17%
0%
Targeted countries and sectors
Attack sources
OCTOBER 2023 - MARCH 2024 | 5
ESET APT ACTIVITY REPORT
Executive summary          Attackers and targets          China          Middle East          North Korea          Russia          Other          About ESET
China 
ESET APT ACTIVITY REPORT
OCTOBER 2023 - MARCH 2024 | 6
Executive summary          Attackers and targets          China          Middle East          North Korea          Russia          Other          About ESET
Mustang Panda
This section provides highlights of various 
cyberespionage campaigns carried out by China-
aligned APT groups tracked by ESET researchers.
China-aligned threat actors predominantly exploit 
public-facing applications for initial access, targetting a 
variety of verticals. In the campaigns we investigated, 
these groups mostly used one-day vulnerabilities 
against a variety of appliances (e.g., VPNs, firewalls) and 
software (e.g., Confluence, Microsoft Exchange Server) 
on internet-facing devices.
In Europe, the Mustang Panda group targeted the 
cargo shipping industry, deploying Korplug loaders 
onto victim's systems. Some of these samples used 
DLL search-order hijacking against an outdated version 
of Nero WaveEditor and used invalid Authenticode 
signatures.
We provide below a summary of various 
cyberespionage campaigns carried out by China-
aligned APT groups against multiple different targets in 
Taiwan.
Finally, we share our assessment about the I-SOON 
leaks that occurred this February and discuss the links 
between the company, FishMonger, and Operation 
ChattyGoblin.
Mustang Panda targets the cargo 
shipping industry in Europe
In the first quarter of 2024, our team identified 
the presence of Mustang Panda’s Korplug loaders 
on computer systems belonging to cargo shipping 
companies based in Norway, Greece, and the 
Netherlands, including some that appeared to 
be aboard the cargo ships themselves. We were 
already familiar with these samples, as they have 
been utilized in previous campaigns, suggesting that 
Mustang Panda operators are reusing samples across 
CeranaKeeper
Flax Typhoon
FishMonger
Operation ChattyGoblin
Summary of China‑aligned 
APT group activity
I-SOON
Government
Engineering and manufacturing
Education
Transportation
Financial services
Healthcare
Non-profit
Dissidents
Political party
0
5
10
15
20
25
Exploit of public facing application (T1190)
Replication through removable media (T1091)
Content injection (T1659)
Drive-by compromise (T1189)
Spearphishing attachment (T1566.001)
Supply-chain compromise (T1195)
0
5
10
15
20
25
Sectors targeted by China-aligned APT groups
Initial access techniques used by China-aligned APT groups (with MITRE ATT&CK IDs)
ESET APT ACTIVITY REPORT
OCTOBER 2023 - MARCH 2024 | 7
Executive summary          Attackers and targets          China          Middle East          North Korea          Russia          Other          About ESET
multiple campaigns. It’s worth noting that in certain 
instances, the initial dropper appears to have been 
launched from a USB drive and had filenames such as 
Usb Disk(29GB).exe or SONY_8GR.exe.
All working samples were blocked, but others were 
non-functional due to them having been packed with a 
modified version of UPX that prevented their execution.
Some of the samples deployed at these cargo shipping 
companies have invalid Authenticode signatures and 
probably used DLL search-order hijacking against an 
old version of Nero WaveEditor. One invalid signature 
was copied from a binary legitimately signed by Klaas 
Nekeman. Another sample utilized a signature copied 
from a binary legitimately signed by AVG Technologies 
USA, a firm specializing in computer security.
A note about the attribution of the recent 
TONESHELL campaigns
Since mid-2022, campaigns using a new toolset, 
including the TONESHELL backdoor, have been 
attributed to Mustang Panda. However, after extensive 
analysis, we have decided to track this activity as the 
work of a separate threat actor that we have named 
CeranaKeeper. Despite some similarities, such as 
the use of the same DLL hijacking targets and some 
shared tooling, we are tracking this as a distinct threat 
actor due to organizational and technical differences. 
Mustang Panda and CeranaKeeper seem to operate 
independently, each with its own toolset. They may, 
however, rely on the same digital quartermaster or 
have some level of information sharing, which would 
explain the observed similarities. We will continue to 
track and report on both groups.
Activities against Taiwan
During the last six months, ESET researchers observed 
numerous campaigns carried out by China-aligned 
APT groups against various targets in Taiwan, where a 
presidential election was held this January.
We observed the compromise of the network of a 
Taiwanese television broadcasting company that we 
attribute with high confidence to the SparklingGoblin 
group (which we documented in several publications 
on WeLiveSecurity).
Flax Typhoon, a group documented by Microsoft, 
remains very active in Taiwan. During the last six 
months we observed Flax Typhoon compromising 
multiple Microsoft Exchange servers and deploying 
China Chopper webshells. Even though focused 
exclusively in Taiwan, Flax Typhoon’s targeting seems 
opportunistic and the victimology is broad: the group 
targeted several government organizations, but also 
a consulting firm, a travel booking software company, 
and the pharmaceuticals and electronics verticals. 
As mentioned by Microsoft, Flax Typhoon operators 
deploy the legitimate SoftEther VPN client and VPN 
bridge, and establish a persistent VPN connection on 
compromised systems, allowing them to RDP directly 
to the compromised systems.
ESET researchers also discovered two undocumented 
Linux backdoors used by Gelsemium (a group that we 
documented in a white paper on WeLiveSecurity) 
against Linux servers in Taiwan, probably exploiting an 
Apache Tomcat vulnerability. One of these backdoors, 
which we named WolfsBane, is a Linux variant of the 
Gelsevirine backdoor. The second backdoor, which we 
named FireWood, is connected to Project Wood (which 
we documented in a WeLiveSecurity blogpost), 
previously used by Gelsemium during Operation 
TooHash, as documented by G Data.
Finally, considering Linux malware, we observed the 
tentative deployment of the Linux variant of the Winnti 
malware against a computer science department of 
a Taiwan university. Unfortunately, since the Winnti 
malware is shared among several China-aligned APT 
groups, we cannot conclusively attribute this attack.
Our assessment of the  
I-SOON leaks
On February 16, 2024, a leak containing internal data of 
the I-SOON (Anxun) company was posted on GitHub 
at https://github.com/I-S00N/I-S00N/.
We believe the leak is authentic. While it’s not possible 
for us to validate every single document, we can 
corroborate enough of the documents as authentic to 
be highly confident in this assessment.
We can also independently confirm that I-SOON 
is indeed a Chinese contractor engaged in 
cyberespionage. What we are tracking under the 
group name FishMonger corresponds to part of the 
company’s activities (note that the link was also 
confirmed by PwC analysts). While I-SOON is based in 
Shanghai, most of the R&D is located in Chengdu. This 
city also hosts the infamous Chengdu 404 network 
company, but both should not be mixed. In October 
2023, it was revealed that the two companies are 
opponents in a court case. I-SOON’s website is not 
accessible anymore since the release of the leak, but 
it was archived before it was taken offline. On this 
website, I-SOON publicly advertised having China’s 
Ministry of Public Security as a customer and of 
carrying out offensive and defensive operations.
Interestingly, one IP address mentioned in the leaked 
chat logs (8.218.67[.]52) was used during Operation 
ChattyGoblin – a series of attacks against Southeast 
Asian gambling companies that we documented 
in our Q4 2022-Q1 2023 APT activity report on 
WeLiveSecurity. According to ESET telemetry, that 
server was hosting the web interfaces for the NPS and 
Maisui network proxying tools in June 2022. During 
ESET APT ACTIVITY REPORT
OCTOBER 2023 - MARCH 2024 | 8
Executive summary          Attackers and targets          China          Middle East          North Korea          Russia          Other          About ESET
our research, we could not tie that activity to a known group. In the leaked 
I-SOON chat logs shown in Figure 1, an employee asks for access to a 
machine, apparently for a third party, and another employee provides the 
credentials to log into that server. Note that this dialog also happened in 
June 2022.
2022-06-13 07:39:19	user_1: Asking about personal PC access 
in Yangzhou
2022-06-13 07:39:23	user_1: Can I give it now
2022-06-13 07:40:26	user_2: 8.218.67[.]52:27011 [account]】 
admin [password] 88888888
Figure 1. Extract of I-SOON leaked chat logs (machine translated)
Therefore, we now attribute Operation ChattyGoblin’s activity to I-SOON, 
with medium confidence. 
The leak offers some interesting perspective on the motivations behind 
these attacks against gambling companies. In particular, I-SOON provides 
to its customers a platform to investigate gambling cases – gambling is an 
illegal activity in the People’s Republic of China – named the Falcon Anti-
Gambling Platform. That platform relies on “backend data of domestic and 
foreign gambling websites“, according to its leaked documentation, and 
allows its users to search for data on gamblers and gambling companies. 
This very likely explains the purpose of Operation ChattyGoblin: to hack 
into gambling companies to exfiltrate data to feed to the Falcon platform. 
Overall, the leak offers an unprecedented view of the internals of the 
company, including some of its products, its HR challenges, its customers, 
and its victims. Our analysis reveals a few global points:
•	 I-SOON works mostly for the Chinese Ministry of Public Security 
(MPS), not only by providing stolen data and ready-to-use malware, but 
also by training MPS employees in several provinces.
•	 I-SOON resells ShadowPad (internal name: SecuritySystem), Winnti 
for Linux (internal name: Threadstone), and an unknown Linux implant 
named Hector.
•	 I-SOON also has iOS and Android implants that are probably related to 
the POISON CARP group.
•	 The list of victims reveals the targeting of universities in Hong Kong in 
2019. This is in line with our findings published on WeLiveSecurity. We 
initially attributed the incident to Winnti Group but have since revised 
our attribution to FishMonger.
OCTOBER 2023 - MARCH 2024 | 9
ESET APT ACTIVITY REPORT
Executive summary          Attackers and targets          China          Middle East          North Korea          Russia          Other          About ESET
Middle East 
ESET APT ACTIVITY REPORT
OCTOBER 2023 - MARCH 2024 | 10
Executive summary          Attackers and targets          China          Middle East          North Korea          Russia          Other          About ESET
BladedFeline
During the past two quarters, BladedFeline continued 
to exploit a governmental organization from the 
Kurdistan region of Iraq. The coding capabilities of 
this group, which has interests that align with Iran, 
specifically targeting longtime rival Iraq, display a 
breadth of skill, deploying payloads written in Python, 
C#/.NET, and C++, which makes them something of an 
oddity amongst Middle East-aligned (and Iran-aligned) 
groups. The group is also quite proficient in PowerShell 
and VBScript, having deployed tools using both in what 
are best characterized as well-written scripts that are a 
notch above other groups in the region.
The group has gone to some lengths to maintain 
access to this governmental organization, having 
breached it at several layers and reinforcing access by 
innovating new backdoors and tunneling applications. 
In addition to the governmental organization, 
BladedFeline also compromised a telecommunications 
provider in Uzbekistan. We detected the attack during 
this reporting period; however, the initial compromise 
time probably dates back to May 2022. Targeting 
this victim is interesting in the timing, particularly if 
the links to Iran-aligned groups pan out, as Iran has 
recently been noted to be considering rapprochement 
with Central Asian countries. Having followed 
Middle Eastern groups for some time, we can say that 
cyberespionage goes hand in hand with diplomatic 
efforts, particularly when it comes to Iran.
POLONIUM
During this reporting period, we observed POLONIUM, 
a threat actor aligned with Hezbollah’s interests, 
continue to be avid Python coders. In November 
2023, POLONIUM used a Python backdoor, MegaPy, 
and an exfiltrator to exploit four Israeli organizations 
in the technology and social services verticals. The 
BladedFeline
POLONIUM MuddyWater OilRig Ballistic Bobcat Agrius
Summary of Middle Eastern 
APT group activity
Government
Engineering and manufacturing
Telecommunications
Communications
Retail
Non-profit
Education
Financial services
Transportation
Construction
Healthcare
0
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
Spearphishing attachment (T1566.001)
Spearphishing link (T1566.002)
Fake app (T1444, MITRE ATT&CK v7)
Exploit of public facing application (T1190)
0
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
Sectors targeted by Middle Eastern APT groups
Initial access techniques used by Middle Eastern APT groups (with MITRE ATT&CK IDs)
ESET APT ACTIVITY REPORT
OCTOBER 2023 - MARCH 2024 | 11
Executive summary          Attackers and targets          China          Middle East          North Korea          Russia          Other          About ESET
backdoor uses MEGA and Nextcloud for C&C communications and, for the 
exfiltrator, for data storage. An interesting feature of the exfiltrator is that 
the WebDAV protocol is used, which is not something we commonly see in 
malware communications. 
Then in January 2024, POLONIUM deployed an update of its Python 
backdoor to construction, manufacturing, and healthcare companies in 
Israel. This iterative update employs encrypted payloads with per-victim, 
customized content, probably to mask some of the exploit chain from 
defenders and to make tracking more difficult for researchers. During this 
campaign, POLONIUM changed the service providers used for its C&Cs: 
Supabase and Backendless. Initial payload hosting was done, in one 
particular case, on a typo-squatting domain: yutube.com[.]de.
MuddyWater OilRig Ballistic Bobcat Agrius
Summary of Iran-aligned 
APT group activity
ESET researchers, while tracking Iran-aligned threats, have observed 
a sharp uptick in activity following the attack on Israel on October 7, 
2023. The increased activity has been focused on two primary pursuits: 
access brokering, typified by access development immediately followed 
by credential theft; and, subsequent attacks seeking to damage, destroy, 
or otherwise harm organizations, with the occasional name-and-shame 
post-impact activity on social media. Commensurate with the uptick in 
operational tempo has been a marked decline in attack efficacy and overall 
quality of operations and tooling (particularly with MuddyWater, which has 
not historically been a powerhouse in APT circles).
This increase in operational tempo and focus on access brokering in 
conjunction with impact malware has likely led to a decrease in typical 
cyberespionage. We have noted a downturn in OilRig activities, beginning 
in November and culminating in December. Since then, OilRig has been 
unusually quiet, whereas we would typically expect to see the group 
updating existing tooling to maintain previously established accesses 
and deploying new, often novel, malware to target mostly governmental 
entities in the Middle East – with a heavy focus on Israel.
Ballistic Bobcat, which also has generally been a steady purveyor of 
malware, also seemed to wind down operations in September and October. 
Although, in that timeframe, we did see Ballistic Bobcat employing TTPs 
we associate with MuddyWater, including the use of remote access tools 
(RemCom), PowerShell scripts, and manual operator command line 
execution of a variety of commands. Overall, we assess that a great many 
Iran-aligned threat actors have shifted focus to support efforts to attack 
Israel with loud attacks and have largely eschewed quieter operations.
Access brokering
The group doing the bulk of the yeoman’s work in this area is, perhaps 
unsurprisingly, MuddyWater. The primary initial access method has 
been phishing emails with maliciou link that, when clicked, download a 
remote access tool (RAT), also referred to as a remote management and 
monitoring (RMM) tool. A less seen but equally successful initial access 
tactic is a phishing email with an attached document that includes a 
malicious link that, when opened, downloads the same or similar RAT/
RMM. This extra step was only adopted by MuddyWater at the end of Q1 
2024, probably to evade defenders from blocking the previously employed 
method that was publicly reported by Proofpoint.
In addition to MuddyWater, we also observed Agrius both attempting 
access brokering activities and deploying impactful malware to victims in 
ESET APT ACTIVITY REPORT
OCTOBER 2023 - MARCH 2024 | 12
Executive summary          Attackers and targets          China          Middle East          North Korea          Russia          Other          About ESET
1 SHA-1: C9D18D01E1EC96BE952A9D7BD78F6BBB4DD2AA2A
Israel. This represents a departure from typical Agrius activity, which has 
historically been focused on wipers, ransomware, or some variation of the 
two, without any credential theft endeavors.
Subsequent to the initial access, MuddyWater has employed a variety 
of tools and techniques attempting to obfuscate C&C servers. Typical 
RATs/RMMs include Atera, SimpleHelp, and TacticalRMM. Beyond that, 
though, MuddyWater operators have literally been scraping GitHub and 
the internet for any and all tooling they can find that offers reverse-shell-
like capabilities. Aside from old MuddyWater staples like Ligolo, frp, and 
Venom, they have also used Bore, GoSocks5, Koblas, rathole, ReSocks, 
ReSocks-5 (in C++ and Go), Revsocks, and Yamux. Many would-be victims 
received more than a handful of these tools, which were quite often 
blocked by ESET software…leading to several comical instances of operators 
attempting to execute the same tools repeatedly. 
Finally, MuddyWater deployed additional tooling to establish persistence 
(occasionally) and gather credentials. For the former, MuddyWater 
continued looking for resources on the internet, including AutodialDLL 
(which was publicly reported on by Palo Alto). As to the former, 
MuddyWater deployed an LSASS dumper disguised as 7-Zip and a credential 
stealer masquerading as a Java update. In several cases, MuddyWater 
used a tool, RunPEinMemory, to attempt to bypass ESET security tooling 
(unsuccessfully) by loading malware into memory, then executing it.
Impact attacks with wipers and ransomware
We observed three distinct impact attacks (e.g., wipers, ransomware) 
during this period. The first occurred at the end of October, which we 
dubbed BiBiGun Wiper, based on the file extension that was used to 
overwrite files (.bibi). Initially reported by Security Joes, we quickly 
pivoted on the Linux version to find a Windows variant. It is not clear to us 
whether any of the aforementioned access brokering was used to facilitate 
access to victims, as we did not see any victims with ESET software 
installed. 
The second occurrence took place at roughly the same time. Agrius 
deployed a wiper to victims in Israel in the communications vertical 
(among others we could not identify). Palo Alto and the Israeli CERT each 
published an article about this attack. The version of the wiper observed in 
our telemetry is a BIOS wiper based on the Red Petya wiper. Perhaps more 
interesting than the wiper, though, is the use of a modified version of Plink 
that Agrius used like a reverse tunnel: it requires base64-encoded runtime 
arguments. In addition, Agrius also deployed several LSASS dumpers 
to victims before deploying the wiper, likely to add access brokering for 
future attacks. One additional tidbit we saw is that both Agrius (during 
this incident) and Ballistic Bobcat (in previous attacks) have used the same 
SQL dumping tool, perhaps indicating tool sharing across these previously 
unlinked groups.
The final occurrence was in March 2024 and was perpetrated by an as-
yet-unattributed group with goals that coalesce with Iran-aligned threat 
actors. The wiper targeted at least 19 organizations in Israel over a wide 
range of verticals. The group’s TTPs align with other Iran-aligned groups, 
most notably MuddyWater, in that several remote access tools were used 
to drop files on victim systems, including AnyDesk, N-Able, and UltraVNC. 
Additionally, the string AaronBushnell is included in all wiper samples 
discovered. Aaron Bushnell was an enlisted member of the United States 
Air Force prior to his self-immolation in front of the Israeli embassy in 
Washington, DC on February 25, 2024. In the days following his death, 
many pro-Iranian figures – including Ayatollah Ali Khamenei – have used 
Bushnell as a talking point supporting Iranian interests. It follows that 
groups with interests aligned with Iran would also use Bushnell’s name.
While we cannot definitively state that access broker operations were 
involved in this last wiper attack, it does seem highly plausible based on the 
suddenness of the attack (carried out over two days), and the large number 
of victims with seemingly no indicators of compromise leading up to the 
wiper’s deployment.
OCTOBER 2023 - MARCH 2024 | 13
ESET APT ACTIVITY REPORT
Executive summary          Attackers and targets          China          Middle East          North Korea          Russia          Other          About ESET
North Korea 
ESET APT ACTIVITY REPORT
OCTOBER 2023 - MARCH 2024 | 14
Executive summary          Attackers and targets          China          Middle East          North Korea          Russia          Other          About ESET
In the current reporting period period, we noticed 
several interesting trends. All groups continued to 
improve their tradecraft by either developing new 
malware strains or using techniques successfully used 
in the past by North Korea-aligned groups. 
Lazarus continued to target aerospace and defense 
companies, with the presumed goal of espionage. 
At the same time, we noticed that Lazarus appears 
to be putting a larger effort into targeting the 
cryptocurrency industry, both organizing crypto 
heists and compromising developers working on 
cryptocurrency projects. According to a Microsoft 
report, cryptocurrency worth between $600 million 
and $1 billion was stolen by North Korea-aligned threat 
actors in 2023.
Both ScarCruft and Konni ran spearphishing campaigns 
targeting individuals and organizations in South Korea. 
In addition, Konni apparently targeted selected Russian 
government employees in a campaign we investigated 
in December 2023. We also detected activity of 
different Kimsuky clusters worldwide.
The primary compromise vector remains spearphishing. 
Lazarus continued using fake job offers in its Operation 
DreamJob, whereas ScarCruft and Konni often used 
cryptocurrency, Know Your Customer, or business 
agreement lures, to target selected individuals. Andariel 
used several publicly disclosed vulnerabilities in web 
applications as the initial access vector.
Supply-chain attacks and 
trojanized installers
In this period, there was a noticeable increase in 
broadscale campaigns using supply-chain compromises 
and trojanized software installers.
In November 2023, Microsoft uncovered a Lazarus-
linked attack on CyberLink – a Taiwanese multimedia 
software company. Attackers compromised the 
Summary of North Korea-
aligned APT group activity
Andariel
Lazarus
ScarCruft
Kimsuky
Konni
Engineering and manufacturing
Defense
Education
Information and cultural industries
0
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
Spearphishing attachment (T1566.001)
Exploit of public facing application (T1190)
Trusted relationship (T1199)
Supply-chain compromise (T1195)
0
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
Sectors targeted by North Korea-aligned APT groups
Initial access techniques used by North Korea-aligned APT groups (with MITRE ATT&CK IDs)
ESET APT ACTIVITY REPORT
OCTOBER 2023 - MARCH 2024 | 15
Executive summary          Attackers and targets          China          Middle East          North Korea          Russia          Other          About ESET
company, inserted malicious code into its software 
build and delivery process, hence any resulting binaries 
would be trojanized and be signed by the company’s 
digital certificate and released via official channels to 
the company’s users. 
In December 2023, ESET detected Kimsuky malware 
on several machines belonging to a construction-
related entity in South Korea. The analysis of the attack 
revealed that the malware was downloaded and 
executed, by employees, on the entity’s compromised 
servers that were running the WIZVERA VeraPort 
solution. According to our data, the attack continued 
until January 2024. Interestingly, the malware was 
available for download only in specific timeframes. 
Outside of these timeframes, the compromised 
servers served legitimate binaries. This was confirmed 
in an AhnLab report, published in February 2024. 
Additionally, AhnLab estimated that the total number 
of afflicted machines was over 3,000, showing that this 
attack had a relatively large number of victims.
Konni used a trojanized installer of a very niche 
application to target employees of Russian embassies 
as seen in Figure 2. The same approach was also used 
by Lazarus in its DreamJob campaigns. Trojanized PDF 
viewers and trojanized VNC applications were delivered 
to victims as a part of a job application process, which 
served as the initial compromise vector.
Last but not least, Lazarus was observed uploading 
trojanized JavaScript and Python packages to open-
source package repositories like NPM and PyPI, 
imitating popular package names in order to trick 
people into installing them. These packages would 
act as downloaders for further malicious components 
and were targeting three major operating systems – 
Windows, Linux, and macOS.
Evolving attackers’ toolset
Speaking of attacker’s tools and techniques, we noticed 
a shift towards the use of malicious LNK (Windows 
shortcut) files. ScarCruft, Konni, and Kimsuky all 
started using v"very similar LNK files with artificially 
inflated sizes. PowerShell emerged as the favorite 
scripting language for these threat actors – long 
PowerShell command lines are used to extract and 
decrypt malicious payloads embedded in the shortcut 
file itself. Previously, these actors used CHM (Compiled 
Windows Help) files and the MSHTA engine to achieve 
their goals.
Lazarus developed a new backdoor that we named 
WebLogTea. We were able to analyze both macOS 
and Linux versions of the backdoor, which were 
distributed via trojanized PyPI packages in February 
2024. WebLogTea was also independently analyzed and 
described by researchers at Vipyr Security.
In the middle of 2023, Kimsuky was observed using 
AlphaSeed, which is newly developed malware written 
in Go, as well as proxy malware. Throughout the rest 
of 2023 and the beginning of 2024, Kimsuky continued 
with the trend of developing new malware strains in 
Go. In particular, various security vendors described and 
named TrollAgent, Endoor, and Nikidoor. We attribute 
all this new malware to the Kimsuky AppleSeed cluster.
Figure 2. Screenshot of the custom reporting software
OCTOBER 2023 - MARCH 2024 | 16
ESET APT ACTIVITY REPORT
Executive summary          Attackers and targets          China          Middle East          North Korea          Russia          Other          About ESET
Russia
ESET APT ACTIVITY REPORT
OCTOBER 2023 - MARCH 2024 | 17
Executive summary          Attackers and targets          China          Middle East          North Korea          Russia          Other          About ESET
Over the last six months, ESET researchers have 
consistently monitored the operations of Russia-aligned 
APT groups, primarily directing their activities towards 
Ukraine and countries within the European Union.
Russia-aligned threat actors predominantly relied on 
spearphishing emails against a variety of verticals for 
initial access. In a campaign we investigated, emails 
sent to targets contained either malicious links or 
malicious attachments. When successful, these were 
ultimately used to harvest credentials from the targets 
or directly install malicious payloads onto their systems.
Spearphishing as initial access
Since the end of February 2024, we observed a wave of 
spearphishing emails targeting European governmental 
entities and attempting to exploit the CVE-2024-21413 
vulnerability in Outlook, aka the Moniker Link bug.
Figure 3 shows an example of one of these emails, 
using the European Council calendar as a lure. Note 
that the sender email address and the email’s signature 
impersonate a real person who works as a press officer 
for the Council.
Examining the victimology of the incidents, it becomes 
evident that the pattern of targeting aligns with the 
modus operandi commonly associated with Sednit.
Callisto
In December 2023, the UK government publicly 
attributed Callisto to the FSB’s 18th Center for 
Information Security of the Russian Federation, 
establishing a strong link between the group and the 
Russian government.
In February 2024, an article was published by The 
Record, in which they explain how Callisto targeted 
Keir Giles, a well-known researcher and fellow at the 
Chatham House think tank. The Callisto group primarily 
uses phishing emails sent from Proton Mail addresses 
Summary of Russia-aligned 
APT group activity
Gamaredon
Sandworm
Turla
Sednit
Government
Energy
Defense
Non-profit
Education
International organization
Engineering and manufacturing
Retail
Telecommunications
0
5
10
15
20
25
30
35
Spearphishing (T1566)
Spearphishing attachment (T1566.001)
Exploit of public facing application (T1190)
Trusted relationship (T1199)
0
5
10
15
20
25
30
35
Sectors targeted by Russia-aligned APT groups
Initial access techniques used by Russia-aligned APT groups (with MITRE ATT&CK IDs)
ESET APT ACTIVITY REPORT
OCTOBER 2023 - MARCH 2024 | 18
Executive summary          Attackers and targets          China          Middle East          North Korea          Russia          Other          About ESET
and attaches a blurred PDF to entice the target to log into a fake webmail 
page. We have detected similar phishing emails: see Figure 4.
Note that the attackers tried to convince the victim that they were replying 
to an existing email, while both were actually created by the attackers. In 
this case, Callisto impersonated James Sherr, a fellow at Chatham House 
and specialist in Soviet and Russian military matters. Note that he was 
sanctioned by the Russian government in February 2024.
Cyberespionage operation against European 
governments
In 2023, we detected two previously unknown backdoors that we call 
LunarWeb and LunarMail. They were used in compromises of a European 
ministry of foreign affairs and its diplomatic missions abroad.
Both backdoors share a loader that uses the DNS domain name for 
decryption of the payload, have code overlaps, and support similar 
commands, but differ in C&C communication methods. LunarWeb, 
deployed on servers, uses HTTP(S) and attempts to blend in by mimicking 
the traffic of legitimate services such as Windows Update. LunarMail, 
deployed on workstations, piggybacks on Outlook and communicates via 
email messages. The backdoors hide commands and data in images and 
documents and both have the unusual capability of being able to execute 
Lua scripts.
We believe with high confidence the backdoors have been used for years 
– since at least 2020 and possibly earlier. Based on similarities with past 
activity, we attribute the compromises to Turla with medium confidence.
Russia-Ukraine war
Gamaredon
Gamaredon remains the most active APT group operating in Ukraine, 
with thousands of daily detections, as illustrated in Figure 5 below. It uses 
spearphishing emails as one of its initial access vectors. The emails contain 
an XHTML file attachment that utilizes HTML smuggling to deliver a ZIP 
archive containing an HTA file. This HTA file then downloads another HTA 
file that contains a VBScript downloader that can deliver various payloads.
During this period, we discovered a new version of commonly used 
downloaders written in PowerShell that we call PteroPSLoad. This time 
PteroPSLoad has been using the Cloudflare Tunnel client and ngrok utility in 
order to communicate with its C&C servers.
Figure 3. Body of a phishing email using the European Council calendar as a lure
Figure 4. Callisto phishing email
Figure 5. Gamaredon tool detection statistics
ESET APT ACTIVITY REPORT
OCTOBER 2023 - MARCH 2024 | 19
Executive summary          Attackers and targets          China          Middle East          North Korea          Russia          Other          About ESET
Sandworm
In December 2023, Kyivstar, a major telecommunications operator in 
Ukraine, disclosed that it had fallen victim to a cyberattack. The same 
month, the pro-Russian Telegram channel @solntsepekZ, which has been 
used to amplify Sandworm’s attacks, claimed that Sandworm is responsible 
for the cyberattack against Kyivstar.
In January 2024, we detected Sandworm activity directed against a regional 
power supply company in Ukraine.
In March 2024, the same Telegram channel announced a cyberattack 
against four small internet providers in Ukraine. SentinelLabs analyzed 
AcidPour, a Linux wiper, which might have been used in this cyberattack.
Note that in addition to Sandworm, we have detected the group UAC-0099 
targeting energy companies in Ukraine in the last few months. This, along 
with the ongoing physical destruction of Ukrainian energy infrastructure 
with missile barrages, underscores the energy vertical as one of the 
primary targets for Russia.
Operation Texonto
In February 2024, we published a blogpost about a disinformation and 
psychological operation (PSYOP) campaign  we named Operation Texonto. 
This campaign is trying to raise doubts in the minds of Ukrainians and 
Ukrainian speakers abroad. Attackers primarily use emails as the main 
distribution method for their PSYOP messages.
In March 2024, we observed new Operation Texonto activity directed 
against various individuals in Russia, most likely Russian dissidents. 
Attackers were trying to impersonate Alexey Navalny’s team in order 
to disorganize the noon voting protest of Navalny’s supporters during 
Russia’s 2024 presidential election.  
The email was sent from info@information2024[.]com with text trying 
to convince people to go vote at 17:00 instead of noon. The email content is 
provided in Figure 6 (and see Figure 7 for the English translation).
In April 2024, we detected a new Texonto PSYOP spam wave directed 
against people living in the Kharkiv region of Ukraine. The email content is 
provided in Figure 8 (and see Figure 9 for the English translation).
Figure 6. Email body (original version in Russian)
Figure 7. Email body (machine translation from Russian to English)
Figure 8. Email body (original version in Ukrainian)
Figure 9. Email body (machine translation from Ukrainian to English)
OCTOBER 2023 - MARCH 2024 | 20
ESET APT ACTIVITY REPORT
Executive summary          Attackers and targets          China          Middle East          North Korea          Russia          Other          About ESET
Other
ESET APT ACTIVITY REPORT
OCTOBER 2023 - MARCH 2024 | 21
Executive summary          Attackers and targets          China          Middle East          North Korea          Russia          Other          About ESET
SturgeonPhisher
In this section, we review notable activities from groups with as yet 
unknown alignments.
ESET researchers also track campaigns from lesser-known groups. In this 
section, we highlight a recent SturgeonPhisher campaign in the Middle 
East, a watering-hole attack on a regional news website that delivers news 
about Gilgit-Baltistan (a disputed region administered by Pakistan), and the 
exploitation of a zero-day vulnerability in Roundcube by Winter Vivern.
SturgeonPhisher
SturgeonPhisher (also known as YoroTrooper) is a cyberespionage group 
that we believe is aligned with the interests of Kazakhstan. The group 
mainly targets governments in Central Asia, but campaigns in recent 
months suggest that they are also tasked with intelligence gathering 
operations worldwide.
In particular, we noticed that in November 2023, a month after the start 
of the armed conflict between Israel and Hamas, SturgeonPhisher created 
phishing websites targeting ministries of foreign affairs in Iran and Yemen. 
It is the first time that we have noticed any Middle Eastern countries to be 
of interest to the group.
Figure 10 shows an Axigen WebMail phishing page hosted at 
mail.mofa.middleast-gov[.]com.
We believe that a spearphishing email, with a link to the fake webmail 
page, was sent to the targets leading them to believe that they need 
to authenticate to view a document. After the victim is enticed into 
submitting credentials, a PDF is displayed (see Figure 11). This document is 
about alleged crimes during Israel's occupancy of Palestine.
Unlucky Kamran
In activity reported in November 2023, ESET researchers have identified a 
watering-hole attack on a regional news website that delivers news about 
Gilgit-Baltistan, a disputed region administered by Pakistan. When opened 
on a mobile device, the Urdu version of the Hunza News website offers 
Unlucky Kamran
Other notable APT activities
Winter Vivern
Figure 10. Axigen WebMail phishing page
Figure 11. Palestine_MOFA.pdf
ESET APT ACTIVITY REPORT
OCTOBER 2023 - MARCH 2024 | 22
Executive summary          Attackers and targets          China          Middle East          North Korea          Russia          Other          About ESET
readers the possibility to download the Hunza News Android app directly 
from the website, but the app has malicious espionage capabilities. 
The developer certificate of the malicious app was issued on January 10, 
2023 and the app appeared on the website sometime between January 7 
and March 21 that year. During that time, protests were being held in Gilgit-
Baltistan for various reasons encompassing land rights, taxation concerns, 
prolonged power outages, and a decline in subsidized wheat provisions. The 
region, shown in the map in Figure 12, is under Pakistan’s administrative 
governance, consisting of the northern portion of the larger Kashmir region, 
which has been the subject of a dispute between India and Pakistan since 
1947, and between India and China since 1959.
The Kamran spyware automatically gathers sensitive user data, including 
SMS messages, the contacts list, call logs, calendar events, device location, 
list of installed applications, and images.
Winter Vivern
In October 2023, ESET researchers discovered a zero-day vulnerability 
used in the wild by Winter Vivern, a cyberespionage group that we believe 
is aligned with the interests of Belarus.
Exploitation of the XSS vulnerability, assigned CVE-2023-5631, can be done 
remotely by sending a specially crafted email message. In this Winter Vivern 
campaign, the emails were sent from team.managment@outlook[.]com 
and had the subject Get started in your Outlook.
Figure 12. Gilgit-Baltistan region
Figure 13. Email sample exploiting CVE-2023-5631
ESET APT ACTIVITY REPORT
OCTOBER 2023 - MARCH 2024 | 23
(eset):research
© 2024 ESET, spol. s r.o. - All rights reserved.
Trademarks used herein are trademarks or registered trademarks of ESET, spol. s r.o.
All other names and brands are registered trademarks of their respective companies.
Executive summary          Attackers and targets          China          Middle East          North Korea          Russia          Other          About ESET
About ESET
ESET® provides cutting-edge digital security to prevent attacks before 
they happen. By combining the power of AI and human expertise, ESET 
stays ahead of known and emerging cyberthreats — securing businesses, 
critical infrastructure, and individuals. Whether it’s endpoint, cloud, or 
mobile protection, our AI-native, cloud-first solutions and services remain 
highly effective and easy to use. ESET technology includes robust detection 
and response, ultra-secure encryption, and multifactor authentication. 
With 24/7 real-time defense and strong local support, we keep users safe 
and businesses running without interruption. An ever-evolving digital 
landscape demands a progressive approach to security: ESET is committed 
to world-class research and powerful threat intelligence, backed by R&D 
centers and a strong global partner network. For more information, visit 
www.eset.com or follow us on LinkedIn, Facebook, and X.
ESET Threat Intelligence
ESET Threat Reports and APT Activity Reports
ESET GitHub
@ESETresearch
WeLiveSecurity.com
