Trend Micro
About TrendLabs Security Intelligence Blog
Home   »   Botnets   »   Operation Black Atlas Endangers In-Store Card Payments and SMBs Worldwide; Switches
between BlackPOS and Other Tools
Featured Stories
2016 Predictions: The Fine Line Between Business
and Personal
Pawn Storm Targets MH17 Investigation Team
FBI, Security Vendors Partner for DRIDEX
Takedown
Japanese Cybercriminals New Addition To
Underground Arena
Follow the Data: Dissecting Data Breaches and
Debunking the Myths
Recent Posts
Operation Black Atlas, Part 2: Tools and Malware
Used and How to Detect Them
New Targeted Attack Group Buys BIFROSE Code,
Works in Teams
Adobe Flash Player Fixes 79 Bugs; Microsoft Issues
12 Patches in December Patch Tuesday
Blog of News Site “The Independent” Hacked,
Leads to TeslaCrypt Ransomware
The German Underground: Buying and Selling
Goods via Droppers
2016 Security Predictions
From new extortion schemes and IoT
threats to improved cybercrime
legislation, Trend Micro predicts how the
security landscape is going to look like in
2016.
Read more
Popular Posts
Blog of News Site “The Independent” Hacked,
Leads to TeslaCrypt Ransomware
High-Profile Mobile Apps At Risk Due to Three-Year-
Old Vulnerability
Trend Micro, NCA Partnership Leads to Arrests and
Shutdown of Refud.me and Cryptex Reborn
Cybercriminals Improve Android Malware Stealth
Routines with OBAD
Hacking Team Flash Zero-Day Integrated Into
Exploit Kits
Latest Tweets
#PoS systems can be attacked with #PoS
skimmers: bit.ly/1NVgYcR
about 49 mins ago
Operation Black Atlas Endangers In-Store Card Payments
and SMBs Worldwide; Switches between BlackPOS and Other
Tools
Posted on: December 1, 2015 at 12:31 am
Posted in: Botnets, Malware
Author: Jay Yaneza (Threats Analyst)
With the coming holidays also come news of various credit card breaches that endanger the data of
many industries and their customers. High-profile breaches, such as that of the Hilton Hotel and other
similar establishments, were accomplished using point-of-sale (PoS) malware, leading many to fear
digital threats on brick-and-mortar retailers this Thanksgiving, Black Friday, Cyber Monday, and the rest
of the holiday season. Researchers also found a broad campaign that uses the modular ModPOS
malware to steal payment card data from retailers in the US.
However, from what we have seen, it is not only retailers in the US that are at risk of breaches. Our
researchers recently found an early version of a potentially powerful, adaptable, and invisible botnet
that seeks out PoS systems within networks. It has already extended its reach to small and medium
sized business networks all over the world, including a healthcare organization in the US. We are
calling this operation Black Atlas, in reference to BlackPOS, the malware primarily used in this
operation.
Operation Black Atlas has been around since September 2015, just in time to plant its seeds before the
holiday season. Its targets include businesses in the healthcare, retail, and more industries which rely
on card payment systems.
The operation is run by technically sophisticated cybercriminals who are knowledgeable in a variety of
penetration testing tools and possess a wide network of connections to PoS malware in the
underground market. Its operators built a set of tools much like a Swiss army knife, with each tool
offering a different functionality. Malware utilized in Black Atlas included (but were not limited to)
variants of Alina, NewPOSThings, a Kronos backdoor, and BlackPOS. BlackPOS, also known as
 Kaptoxa, was the malware used during the Target breach in 2013 and attacks on retail accounts in
2014.
Similar to GamaPoS, the Black Atlas operators employed a “shotgun” approach to infiltrate networks as
opposed to zeroing in on specific targets. They basically checked available ports on the Internet to see
if they can get in, ending up with multiple targets around the world. The following graph shows where
these targets are located:
Figure 1. Distribution of Gorynych targets in Operation Black Atlas
35
156
Go to…
▼
The rise of user awareness on ad-blocking
is driving malvertisters to be even more
creative: bit.ly/1QrUzX6 
about 5 hours ago
It's tricky for Law enforcement to keep up
with North American cybercriminals’ erratic
nature: bit.ly/1YNuO4t #DeepWeb
about 10 hours ago
Stay Updated
Email Subscription
Your email herebb
So far, the Black Atlas operators have been able to steal user credentials to websites that contain
sensitive information, email accounts, and Facebook. The most interesting data we found was that of a
live video feed of closed-circuit television (CCTV) cameras in a gasoline station. Either this is taking
reconnaissance to another real-time level or the cybercriminals simply captured whatever information is
available.
How Operation Black Atlas Works
Our analysis of the attacks against these targets gave us further insights on how the Black Atlas
operators seek out PoS systems from networks. In one particular case, which involved a healthcare
organization in the US, we found out how the Black Atlas operators operate.
Similar to a targeted attack, Black Atlas involves an intelligence gathering or reconnaissance period
where cybercriminals use a set of tools similar to a Swiss army knife to check how best to infiltrate
systems. It also involves the use of tools such as brute force or dictionary attack tools, SMTP scanners,
and remote desktop viewers. Networks with weak password practices are likely to fall victim to this
initial penetration testing stage. Many of these tools are easily downloaded from various sites on the
Internet.
Figure 2. Operation Black Atlas infection chain
The cybercriminals will then create a test plan based on the initial probe, and then use a second set of
tools to execute the said plan. In the case of the healthcare organization, the Black Atlas operators
utilized remote access tools to steal more information and move laterally within the network. The use of
remote access tools at this stage depends on how the target environment is configured, with the
method of gaining remote access also varying based on the target.
Once inside, cybercriminals then familiarize themselves with the environment. What follows is the
introduction of PoS threats, which the cybercriminals source from the operation’s broad Swiss army
knife toolbox.The favored way to introduce other tools and threats is via the built-in command-line FTP
since antimalware solutions had already blocked the initial site we had reported last September that
hosted Katrina and CenterPoS.
Black Atlas operators used the modular botnet Gorynych or Diamond Fox in some installations.
Gorynich was used to download a repurposed BlackPOS malware with RAM scraping functionality and
upload all the dumped credit card numbers in memory. As the original BlackPOS used a text file to store
pilfered credit card data, Gorynych now grabs that text file and does an HTTP POST to complete the
data exfiltration:
Figure 3. Gorynych data exfiltration stage
In our next blog entry, we will discuss the steps of our investigation, how cybercriminals retrofitted the
new Gorynych backdoor to use BlackPOS, and how the whole operation puts a variety of old and new
PoS malware at the cybercriminals’ fingertips to easily gather financial information. We will also provide
technical details, best practices, and recommendations to help IT managers and business owners
evade or resolve this PoS threat.
With additional analysis by Erika Mendoza
Comments for this thread are now closed.
Trend Micro, NCA Partnership Leads to
Arrests and Shutdown of Refud.me …
16 comments • a month ago
LegitBytes — This is a bunch of Bullshit,
worry about Zeus, Betabot and other
Banking Trojans rather than fucking …
Targeted Attacks versus APTs: What’s
The Diﬀerence? 3 comments • 3 months ago
TrendLabs — Whether or not the Sony
attack was an APT is still up for debate. As
I explained in the entry, APTs are known …
Blog of News Site “The Independent”
Hacked, Leads to TeslaCrypt …
3 comments • 13 days ago
Jérôme Segura — You're welcome. I
sincerely hope the 'bad ad' they report is
not a way to divert attention and blame …
Latest Flash Exploit Used in Pawn Storm
Circumvents Mitigation Techniques …
2 comments • 2 months ago
TrendLabs — Yes, EMET 5.x can be
bypassed. Note though that not every
exploit will be implemented to bypass …
ALSO ON TRENDLABS
0 Comments
TrendLabs
 Login
1
 Share
Sort by Best
Subscribe
Add Disqus to your site
Privacy

 Recommend
HOME AND HOME OFFICE
 |
 FOR BUSINESS
 |
 SECURITY INTELLIGENCE
 |
 ABOUT TREND MICRO
Asia Pacific Region (APAC): Australia / New Zealand, 中国, ⽇本, 대한민국, 台灣 
Latin America Region (LAR): Brasil, México 
North America Region (NABU): United States, Canada 
Europe, Middle East, & Africa Region (EMEA): France, Deutschland / Österreich / Schweiz, Italia, Россия, España, United Kingdom / Ireland
Privacy Statement  Legal Policies
Copyright © 2015 Trend Micro Incorporated. All rights reserved.
Tags: 
Botnets
SMB
healthcare
POS
point-of-sale
Related Posts:
Operation Black Atlas, Part 2: Tools and Malware Used and How to Detect Them
One-Man PoS Malware Operation Captures 22,000 Credit Card Details in Brazil
Two New PoS Malware Affecting US SMBs
Credit Card-Scraping Kasidet Builder Leads to Spike in Detections
