1/3
www.wsj.com /articles/cyberattack-on-news-corp-believed-linked-to-china-targeted-emails-of-journalists-others-11643979328
Cyberattack on News Corp, Believed Linked to China,
Targeted Emails of Journalists, Others
Alexandra Bruell, Sadie Gurman and Dustin Volz ⋮
News Corp was the target of a hack that accessed emails and documents of journalists and other
employees, an incursion the company’s cybersecurity consultant said was likely meant to gather
intelligence to benefit China’s interests.
The attack, discovered on Jan. 20, affected a number of publications and business units including The
Wall Street Journal and its parent Dow Jones; the New York Post; the company’s U.K. news operation;
and News Corp headquarters, according to an email the company sent to staff Friday.
News Corp said it notified law enforcement and hired cybersecurity firm Mandiant Inc. to support an
investigation. A representative of the Federal Bureau of Investigation said late Friday that it was aware of
the incident.
“Mandiant assesses that those behind this activity have a China nexus, and we believe they are likely
involved in espionage activities to collect intelligence to benefit China’s interests,” said David Wong, vice
president of incident response at Mandiant.
News Corp disclosed the hack in a securities filing Friday, saying its preliminary analysis indicates that
data was taken.
A spokesman for the Chinese Embassy in Washington said that China is a staunch defender of
cybersecurity and “firmly opposes and combats cyberattacks and cyber theft in all forms.” The
spokesman, Liu Pengyu, said that identifying the source of cyberattacks is technically complex.
“We hope that there can be a professional, responsible and evidence-based approach to identifying
cyber-related incidents, rather than making allegations based on speculations,” Mr. Liu said.
In the staff memo News Corp said it believes the threat activity is contained. The company has been
offering guidance to affected employees.
“We are committed to protecting our journalists and sources. We will not be deterred from our purpose—
to provide uniquely trusted journalism and analysis. We will continue to publish the important stories of
our time,” said Almar Latour, chief executive of Dow Jones and publisher of The Wall Street Journal.
The company’s investigation indicates that systems housing financial and customer data, including
subscriber information, weren’t affected, according to the securities filing and a person familiar with the
matter.
The investigation detected that the intrusion appeared to date to at least February 2020, according to
people briefed on the matter, and scores of employees were impacted. The hackers were able to access
2/3
reporters’ emails and Google Docs, including drafts of articles, the people said. News Corp was still trying
to determine the full extent of emails and documents that were accessed, the people said.
While the hackers accessed the Google system used by News Corp employees, there was no indication
that they breached the system through a compromise at Google, said people briefed on the matter.
Google’s own systems weren’t affected by the incident, a Google spokeswoman said.
Reporters who were affected by the hack and were briefed on it expressed concerns to company officials
about protecting their sources’ identities. By Friday afternoon, many Journal reporters affected had been
notified by company officials of specific documents that were believed to have been accessed.
The attackers appeared to be interested in a range of topics, including issues of importance to Beijing
such as Taiwan and China’s Uyghur ethnic group, according to other people briefed on the matter and a
review of some of the document target lists. Other areas of interest included draft Journal articles and
notes about U.S. military troop activity, U.S. technology regulation related to China, and articles about
President Joe Biden, Vice President Kamala Harris and senior White House officials.
The hackers also searched using keywords for emails related to traditional intelligence areas, including
defense, one person familiar with the ongoing investigation said. Those searches in some cases
appeared to be prompted by contemporary news developments. “They would come back periodically,”
this person said.
Law-enforcement officials and cybersecurity experts say that journalists are often high-priority targets for
hackers seeking to gain intelligence on behalf of foreign governments, because they speak to sources
who might have valuable or sensitive information. Powerful surveillance tools have been used against
journalists and human-rights activists.
U.S. authorities have accused China-based hackers for years of targeting a range of American
businesses and government institutions. FBI Director Christopher Wray said this week that Beijing is
running a “massive, sophisticated hacking program that is bigger than those of every other major nation
combined.” The FBI has more than 2,000 active investigations related to allegations of Chinese-
government-directed theft of U.S. information or technology, Mr. Wray said.
China has repeatedly denied allegations that it has carried out cyberattacks.
In 2013, Chinese hackers trying to monitor news coverage of China hacked into the Journal’s network,
apparently aiming to spy on reporters covering China and other issues, the Journal reported. The New
York Times had experienced a similar attack. At the time, a Chinese embassy spokesman condemned
allegations of Chinese cyberspying and said Beijing prohibits cyberattacks.
In February 2020, China revoked the press credentials of three Journal reporters based in Beijing.
China’s Foreign Ministry said the move was punishment for an opinion piece published by the Journal.
The three journalists work for the Journal’s news operation, which operates with a strict separation from
the opinion staff.
The following month, the Trump administration announced a personnel cap in the U.S. on four state-run
Chinese media outlets. Later that March, China expelled from the country American journalists from
multiple news organizations, including the Journal.
3/3
In November 2021, each country agreed to ease visa restrictions for the other’s reporters. The Journal
was among a handful of U.S. outlets set to receive new press credentials for some staff.
—Robert McMillan and Jeffrey A. Trachtenberg
Write to Alexandra Bruell at alexandra.bruell@wsj.com, Sadie Gurman at sadie.gurman@wsj.com and
Dustin Volz at dustin.volz@wsj.com
