1/9
intrusiontruth.wordpress.com
/2023/05/17/missing-links/
MiSSing links
intrusiontruth ⋮ ⋮ 5/17/2023
We haven’t quite finished with Mr. Cheng yet. We have one final document to share from Cheng’s cloud.
A photo of a handwritten note, a series of names, and differing currency values. 
2/9
Now, we can’t make out the name in the top left, but we are pretty sure that this is a cast list of Cheng’s
colleagues. Some of these names are old hat by now: Huang Zhen, Li Yilong, and Huang Zhen #2, for
example, take up the bottom three rows. We also have some others we named earlier: Hou Qiang, Wan
Guangcan, Chang Zhen, and Zhang Chaofeng. 
3/9
Not entirely surprising; we have already established the fact that Cheng and these other individuals work
for the same front company. But one name caught our eye, occupying the top line of the table:  崔总 or
Chief Cui. 
This seems like an apt time (if you’ll pardon the pun) to return to our disgruntled whistle-blower at Wuhan
Xiaoruizhi. Among the individuals they outed as being part of Wuhan-based hacking team operating out
of Xiaoruizhi were two MSS officers: Chief Wen and Chief Cui. 
The eagle-eyed amongst you might also recognize Chief Wen from an image in the previous article, on
the price list of routers, firewalls, and network cables that Cheng had. 
Now we had a really good dig into Chang Jiang AKA Chief Cui and Li Yue AKA Chief Wen. Unfortunately,
we could not find anything conclusive, which is possibly indicative of the level of personal operational
security one might expect of the mighty MSS. In the absence of anything more concrete, Chief Cui’s
name in Cheng Feng’s possession with a number of Xiaoruizhi employees, and Chief Wen’s name on a
document in Cheng Feng’s possession at least adds weight to our friend on Breachforums’ association
that Cui and Wen maintain links to the company.
This got us thinking: we wonder who else works in and around Wuhan Xiaoruizhi who has MSS links? 
Zhou Yuan
Thankfully, our investigation into Cheng Feng gave up one more lead. Some of the databases we queried
looking for Cheng’s credentials contained access logs for the services. We knew Cheng didn’t work in a
vacuum, in fact, we already knew he was one of many employees at Xiaoruizhi.  So, we wondered if we
could find any more of his colleagues based on his IP history.  Analysis of three Wuhan Chinanet IP
address indicated that through much of 2015, Cheng Feng’s accounts were co-located with an account
owned by one Zhou Yuan周源. 
Now we have been giving everyone the deep dive treatment, and our friend Zhou is no different. We
couldn’t find much trace of him on social media, but thankfully the gods of breached data continued to
smile on us. We again worked with a trusted contact who was able to gain access to one of Zhou’s Cloud
4/9
hosting accounts. Here we have, from that Cloud account, two 2016 photos of our friend Zhou in glorious
selfie style. 
The uniform he is wearing is one used by both the Chinese Ministry of Public Security and the MSS. The
two are near identical, but for a couple of distinguishing factors. The first, characters on the arm badge,
above the orange and beneath the word ‘POLICE’.
5/9
MPS  “公安” (Public Security) badge on left; MSS “国安” (State security) badge on right. 
In his left-hand selfie, these characters are not visible on Zhou’s uniform – we can’t be sure if he has
pixelated them. If he has, what is he trying to hide?
The second distinguishing factor can be found on the pin on Zhou’s chest, which conveniently is visible. 
A closer look at Zhou’s pin: 
6/9
Zhou’s badge reads  “国安” or State Security; distinct from MPS badges which display the province name
as below:
MPS badge for “广东” or Guangdong 
So, we are pretty confident that Zhou is wearing an MSS uniform. 
Zhou’s selfies also provided us with another gift. Metadata. In this case, geolocating Zhou to the
headquarters of the Hubei State Security Department. 
7/9
Zhou looks so young and innocent that we almost feel guilty. But then, if you are going to take selfies in
an MSS uniform…in an MSS building… As they say in China 凡动刀的，必死在刀下. Those who live by
the sword, die by the sword. 
Demonstrating the longevity of Zhou’s affiliation with the MSS, we also found a 2018 photo again
geolocated to what appears to be the secure car park of the same imposing building. 
Now, we can’t be sure of Zhou Yuan’s true employer. But we can say for sure that he is an employee of
the Chinese government, and at very least was affiliated with the MSS over a period of several years. 
So, we have a possible MSS officer regularly connecting to personal accounts from the same IP
addresses as Cheng Feng, an employee of a supposedly private Wuhan-based technological enterprise.
Strange, certainly, but not a smoking gun which proves Wuhan Xiaoruizhi’s links to the MSS beyond
reasonable doubt. After all, spies have friends just like normal people, and Cheng and Zhou could be just
that. 
8/9
Now we found one more photo we found in Zhou’s possession which we think brings our story nicely full
circle and will be where we leave you, for now at least. 
This, dear reader, is part of the official business registration certificate for Wuhan Xiaoruizhi Science and
Technology. Why, you might ask, does a possible MSS officer hold the registration certificate for a private
technological enterprise? Surely, someone holding such an important document has to have some kind of
9/9
senior oversight or administrative role in the company itself?  At the very least, he is linked to the
company. 
At team Intrusion Truth we are satisfied Zhou having a photo of this certificate and being regularly
collocated with a Xiaoruizhi employee bears out our theory that Wuhan Xiaoruizhi is not a private
enterprise, instead it is a front for an MSS-sponsored APT. Zhou Yuan probably has a role in running the
APT, along with his probable MSS colleagues Chief Cui and Chief Wen. 
This has been a wild ride. How about we summarize how we got here. 
We have found a suspicious hacking school whose owner has links to the MPS and MSS, and whose
graduates go on to mysterious destinations and private companies supporting the government. One such
destination is what looks to be a fishy APT front company. Said front company has a disgruntled
employee leaking sensitive documents online and alleging that the company is affiliated with an elite
hacking team in Wuhan. An employee of the front company bears out its links to Kerui Cracking
Academy, and has material in his possession which supports his affiliation with APT31. Said employee
has more material in his possession indicating links to two MSS officers who have already been doxed on
the darkweb as part of Xiaoruizhi. This employee is also regularly collocated with a possible third MSS
officer, who in turn has, in his possession, Xiaoruizhi documents. 
One thing is for sure. All is not as it seems at Xiaoruizhi. 
And now a plea to you: what else can you find on these individuals? Can you help us tighten the
Xiaoruizhi’s attribution to APT31? 
Goodbye for now, but we will be back. We still have more to share on Xiaoruizhi and friends – 等着瞧. 
