1/17
blog-nsfocus-net.translate.goog
/murenshark/
New APT group MurenShark investigative report: Torpedoes
hit Turkish Navy
Fuying Laboratory ⋮
I. Overview
In the second quarter of 2022 , NSFOCUS’s Fuying Lab detected a series of cyberattacks against Turkey.
After analysis, researchers confirmed that this round of attacks came from Actor 210426 , a new threat
entity identified by Fuying Lab in April 2021 . Fuying Lab conducted an in-depth investigation of the threat
entity through clues such as behavior patterns, attack methods, attack tools, and attack targets, and
confirmed its independence and advanced threat nature.
Based on the activity area and recent attack target of this threat entity (Turkish Navy project "MÜREN" ),
Fuying Lab officially named it as MurenShark , which corresponds to the NSFOCUS Advanced Threat
Organization as APT-N-04 .
In the monitoring activities, the main target areas of the Mullen shark include Turkey and Northern
Cyprus, and the attack range covers many sensitive targets in the fields of universities, research
institutes and the army, especially showing obvious interest in military projects, and has implemented
successful Cyber ​​espionage.
Mulun Shark organizers have rich experience in confrontation and are good at anti-analysis and anti-
source tracing. The investigation revealed that the exposed attack activities are only the tip of the iceberg
of the group's actions, and the discontinuous iterative trajectory of attack targets and attack components
shows that a lot of the group's activities are still hidden in the mist.
This report will share the various dimensions of the organization, its relationship with known APT
organizations, and other findings from Fuying Lab's investigation. 
2. Organizational Information
The Mullen Shark Group is a new type of threat entity active in the Middle East. The main target country
is Turkey. The discovered targets include universities in Northern Cyprus , the Turkish army and Turkish
national scientific research institutions.
The main attack methods of Murren Shark include delivering phishing documents and attacking online
services. The direct purpose includes expanding attack resources, infiltrating target networks, and
stealing key data. The group's known spear-phishing attacks first appeared in April 2021 , with breaches
of university websites earlier than that date.
Mulun Shark has rich experience in confrontation, and its good methods include hiding attacker
information through springboard nodes, blocking process recurrence through component splitting, and
2/17
using third-party solutions to reduce code features.
Murren Shark has well concealed the attacker's information in the activities that have been implemented,
and it is not yet possible to confirm the geographical affiliation of the organization.
3. Attack Technology Matrix
The figure below shows the attacking technology matrix of Murren Shark, including the capabilities
mastered by the attackers and developers of the organization and the capabilities the organization has
achieved with the help of third-party tools.
Murren Shark Green Alliance Technology Attack Technology Matrix
4. Typical Activities
Mullen shark is not a very active attacker, and its attack activity distribution has obvious aggregation.
The most recent round of Mullen Shark activities focused on the first half of August this year. The
attackers delivered various forms of Turkish phishing documents to attack specific targets in Turkey.
Phishing documents appearing in this round of attacks have the following file names:
3/17
Mullen Shark Partial Fishing Document File Name
The first type of fishing document shows the title "Comments on MÜREN Key Design Documents" (
MÜREN KR İTİK TASARIM DOKÜMANINA YÖNELİK GÖRÜŞLER ), and the header part shows that the
document comes from "The Command of the Naval Command 1st Submarine Fleet TCG Sakarya" :
Phishing Document A
The document, which details the Turkish Navy 's revisions to an in-submarine system called " MÜREN ",
is dated June 2022 .
Another type of fishing document shows the title MÜREN-PREVEZE ( M İLLİ ÜRETİM ENTEGRE
SUALTI SAVAŞ YÖNETİM SİSTEMİ PREVEZE SINIFI UYGULAMASI (MÜREN-PREVEZE) PROJESİ ),
which is a national production integrated underwater combat management system pre-level application
project, which shows that the document comes from Turkish technology Research Center of Informatics
and Information Security Advanced Technology Research Center ( TÜBİTAK BİLGEM ):
4/17
Phishing Document B
This phishing document corresponds to a description file for a software system called " MÜREN-
PREVEZE ".
After searching for relevant keywords, Fuying Lab determined that the above two documents were from
the Turkish military project " MÜREN ". This is a submarine combat management system ( CMS )
designed by TÜB İTAK , the Turkish Academy of Science and Technology (
https://bilgem.tubitak.gov.tr/tr/haber/akya-torpidosu-muren-prevezeye -entegre-ediliyor ), and has been
tested in 21 , available to the Turkish Naval Command in 22 ( https://raillynews.com/2021/11/denizaltilari-
muren-yonetecek/ ) . The Turkish Navy has high expectations for the MÜREN project, believing that the
project can promote the localization of Turkish naval systems and become a key step in the Turkish
national-class submarine project "MILDEN" (https://www.navalnews.com/naval-news/2021 /11/turkeys-
new-submarine-cms-muren-to-enter-service-in-2022/ ).
From this, it can be inferred that the main target of Muren Shark’s activities in early August was the
relevant personnel of the “ MÜREN ” project, including the project designers of the Turkish Academy of
Science and Technology and the project reviewers of the Turkish Navy.
Based on the information currently available, Fuying Lab cannot judge whether this round of attacks has
achieved the intended purpose, but from the content of the decoy document, it can be seen that Murren
Shark has successfully invaded the interior of the Turkish Institute of Science and Technology through
other attack activities and has stolen it. High-value document content.
Mullen sharks showed a completely different tendency to attack in earlier attacks. In a reported attack by
Fuying Labs ( http://blog.nsfocus.net/apt-dogecoin/ ), the group used a Dogecoin -related reporting
document as bait to target virtual The currency's followers carried out a phishing attack:
5/17
Phishing Document C
Except that the bait document found that the area is Turkey, no other information was disclosed in the
activity of Mullen sharks.
Affected by the national economic policy, the cryptocurrency industry is extremely popular in Turkey.
Combined with the organization's activity track, Fuying Lab concluded that this type of phishing attack
was part of the coarse-precision fishing activity organized by the Mullen Shark, and the main target was
also Turkey. Hacker groups usually rely on such highly topical decoy documents to conduct extensive
information collection activities, and then filter high-value information from the obtained intelligence.
5. Typical attack process
Murren Shark frequently uses a representative attack process and continues to improve the process and
its components.
The diagram below shows a typical process used by the organization across its 21-year campaign:
6/17
Attack Process A
The attack process consists of three main attack components of Murren Shark, NiceRender,
UniversalDonut, LetMeOut, the lost site neu.edu.tr, and the third-party attack tool CobaltStrike, which
finally steals the data in the victim's host and stores it on the victim's host. The purpose of lateral
movement within the domain.
The following diagram shows the improved process used by the group in recent attacks against Turkish
navy and scientific institutions:
Attack Process B
The process also consists of three main components and the same lost site. The difference is that the
Mullenshark attackers used a new NiceRender file in the process, while further shortening the process
life cycle, which makes it difficult for sandbox-type security products to reproduce the full execution
process.
six,Attack method characteristics
Take advantage of the lost site
Murren Shark tends to use the compromised site as a file server and CnC server in the attack process.
As shown in the chapter on the typical attack flow, the group used the official website of the Near East
University (Yakın Doğu Üniversitesi) (https://neu.edu.tr/) as a remote server for its activities in each
period.
Near East University is a private university located in the Northern Cyprus region. The known attack
process shows that Murren Shark has controlled the server of the official website of Near East University
for more than a year, and has deposited Trojans in multiple locations on the website, ran the LetMeOut
Trojan server, and even deployed the server of the CobaltStrike penetration platform for Sustained control
over the victim.
7/17
Controlled Near East University website
Despite possessing such attack resources, Murren Shark's use of lost sites is generally restrained, and
these sites are silent for the vast majority of the time and have not been traded or abused. This use of the
lost site by the Mullen shark effectively hides traces of the organization and prolongs the availability of
resources.
Component behavior breakdown
When designing the process, Murren Shark follows a special behavioral splitting idea.
For example, the new version of the NiceRender attack component recently used by the group splits the
regular functions of malicious documents into two parts. Part A is designed as a macro code reader and
injector, and part B is designed as a macro code carrier and an injector. Injecting a vector, A needs to get
B over a network connection to run the full component behavior.
For another example, the LetMeOut Trojan program commonly used by the organization will also split its
download function into two parts. The Trojan first uploads the Trojan information and the victim's host
information to CnC, and then obtains the download path of the subsequent load through calculation after
receiving the confirmation information from the server.
The advantages of this design idea are obvious. In conjunction with the compromised sites described
above, these components will not produce any malicious behavior on the network side and process side
when the remote address fails or stops serving, and even untrained personnel cannot detect it when
opening the corresponding file. abnormal. These subdivided component behaviors also interfere with
forensic analysis and attack process restoration. A large number of interaction mechanisms effectively
protect network resources and attack components in the process, reducing the exposure probability.
8/17
When CnC is disconnected, the behavior of the new version of NiceRender is similar to that of regular
documents:
NiceRender behavior in disconnected state
7. Known attack tools
NiceRender
The tool is a malicious macro-type document with a specific execution mode, which is used by the
Mullenshark attackers to craft various phishing documents, which are used as initial payloads for their
attack campaigns. There are currently two versions of the tool.
NiceRender Ver.1
The early version of NiceRender includes three functional parts, namely decoy decoding, online
notification and payload release.
1. Decoy decoding
The biggest difference between NiceRender and other common phishing documents is that this
component will use a unique logic to transcode the text content in the document into garbled characters,
and after performing the above stages, decode these garbled characters, and deliver a message to the
victim. The illusion that encrypted documents are indeed decrypted, increasing the credibility of such
phishing documents.
NiceRender's character conversion logic is to search for a specific wide-byte character and convert it to
the corresponding ASCII character.
The sequence of decimal values ​​corresponding to the wide character to be converted is:
[321, 325, 338, 334, 332, 331, 324, 329, 335, 333, 341, 340, 339, 322, 345, 353, 357, 361, 370, 366,
364, 363, 356, 367, 365 , 373, 372, 371, 354, 377]
9/17
The corresponding ASCII character sequence is:
[A, E, R, N, L, K, D, I, O, M, U, T, S, B, Y, a, e, i, r, n, l, k, d, o, m , u, t, s, b, y]
Once the conversion is complete, NiceRender hides the Enable Editing feature at the top of the original
content, further enhancing document credibility.
The image below shows a comparison of the original content of a typical NiceRender decoy with the
transcoded effect.
   NiceRender decoy
decoding before and after comparison
2. Online notification
This version of NiceRender comes with a special action that notifies the attacker over the network when
the macro code is running.
This notification operation is implemented through the DNS resolution mechanism. The NiceRender
creator first registers a domain name called "cachedns.io" and binds the resolver server for that domain
to itself:
cachedns.io domain WHOIS information
When the macro code of the NiceRender document runs, it will obtain the current timestamp and
combine it into a domain name in the following format:
10/17
[ timestamp ].d0g3.cachedns.io
The Trojan then performs a DNS query for the domain name. Since the attacker has set the primary
domain as described above, the related DNS query request will be sent directly to the domain name
server deployed by the attacker. An attacker can read the domain name to obtain the tag ( d0g3 ) and
running time (timestamp) information of the corresponding NiceRender component , so as to control the
running status of the component and the scale of the attack.
3. Load release
NiceRender then reads the text information in the specific object in the document, obtains a PE file and
saves it to %LOCALAPPDATA%\Microsoft\EdgeFss\FileSyncShell64.dll . The PE file is the
UniversalDonut Trojan.
It should be noted that NiceRender uses a COM component hijacking strategy to load the dll file. By
modifying the registry key, the tool adds a run item to the Windows scheduled task MsCtfMonitor , which
points to the above-mentioned dll file path, so as to run malicious programs.
Registry key written by NiceRender
For the specific implementation of the hijacking logic, please refer to
https://github.com/S3cur3Th1sSh1t/OffensiveVBA/blob/main/src/COMHijack_DLL_Load.vba
UniversalDonut
Mullenshark attackers frequently use a Trojan in the form of dll as a transitional component in their attack
process, and Fuying Lab named it UniversalDonut based on the key information of this component.
UniversalDonut is a shellcode loader type Trojan. After the Trojan is executed, it first detects the following
items:
1. Check if the parent process name is c:\windows\system32\taskhost.exe;
2. Check if it is a high-privileged process
After the detection is passed, the Trojan uses the multi-byte XOR algorithm to decrypt a piece of
shellcode contained in the resource segment and run it.
11/17
The shellcode carried by UniversalDonut is a complete payload generated by the open source framework
Donut (https://github.com/TheWover/donut). With this framework, UniversalDonut can implement a large
number of countermeasures in the shellcode execution stage, including Chaskey algorithm encryption,
AMSI/WDLP bypass, connectivity detection, etc. Most importantly, the .Net support provided by Donut
allows Murrenshark attackers to use this shellcode to load the main trojan LetMeOut in subsequent
stages.
LetMeOut
LetMeOut is a .Net downloader Trojan with a unique insurance mechanism. Murren Shark used this
Trojan several times during the intrusion process.
The main code logic of the LetMeOut Trojan is divided into two parts:
The program first confirms whether there is a binary file named FileSyncShell64.dat in the directory
%LOCALAPPDATA%\Microsoft\EdgeFss\. If the file is found, it uses the multi-byte XOR algorithm and
the gzip compression algorithm to decrypt and decompress the file, and then download the file. run in
memory.
Judging by the behavior, the FileSyncShell64.dat is an encrypted Trojan file cached locally after the
Trojan program communicates with CnC.
If the file named FileSyncShell64.dat is not found in the specified directory, the Trojan will specify the
CnC address for http communication, and append three pieces of information to the http parameter part,
corresponding to the following:
Parameters passed in LetMeOut communication
parameter
name
Parameter content
P1
base64 transcoding,
current proxy content
P2
base64 transcoding, http
User-Agent content
P3
boolean, whether it is a
64-bit process
Subsequently, the program makes a second http request to obtain the content in a hash path obtained by
calculation. The hash path is calculated with the following parameters:
Parameters used by LetMeOut to calculate the hash path
12/17
The decryption method of the encrypted content contained in the reply packet is the same as the above-
mentioned processing method for the FileSyncShell64.dat file, and the LetMeOut Trojan will run the
decrypted content in the form of shellcode.
CobaltStrike
Murren Shark uses the famous CobaltStrike penetration platform to manage the successfully invaded
hosts, and uses the CobaltStrike Beacon Trojan to complete operations such as lateral movement and
stealing.
Eight,Association investigation
Attack on Turkish Institute of Science and Technology
The investigation by Fuying Lab found that it is not the first time that the Turkish Institute of Science and
Technology (TÜBİTAK), one of the main targets of the Murren shark, has been attacked. On the contrary,
as a top scientific research institution that undertakes a large number of Turkish national projects, the
Institute of Science and Technology is a key victim of various hacking and even APT activities.
A type of frequent attacks against the organization are launched in the form of phishing emails. The
attackers use common payloads such as compressed package attachments and vulnerability documents
to deliver secret-stealing Trojans such as AgentTesla to tubitak.gov.tr ​​mailbox users to collect files on the
victim's host. , credentials, and browser cache data.
Phishing email A targeting the Turkish Academy of Science and Technology
There are also some emails with forged quotation requests and institutional pictures from the Turkish
Academy of Science and Technology, and the attachments of the emails carry the AgentTesla Trojan in
the form of a compressed package.
13/17
Phishing Email B targeting Turkish Institute of Science and Technology
The above types of attacks are typical of phishing email campaigns in recent years. Email hacking groups
use this method to steal various documents from victims' hosts and sell them on underground platforms.
These phishing emails indicate that the Turkish Institute of Science and Technology has long been at a
high risk of data breaches.
Another type of attack is more serious, directly targeting the Iranian APT group MuddyWater.
MuddyWater launched a series of phishing attacks on the Turkish Academy of Science and Technology
around 2019. The process of such attacks is relatively simple. Several types of PowerShell Trojans
commonly used by the organization are delivered through decoy documents with TÜBİTAK keywords.
Phishing Document A for Turkish Academy of Science and Technology
14/17
Phishing Document B for Turkish Academy of Science and Technology
After discovering this clue, Fuying Lab launched an investigation into the possible relationship between
Muren Shark and MuddyWater.
Fuying Lab reviewed the known activities of MuddyWater against the Turkish Institute of Science and
Technology and samples in the field, and compared the activities of MuddyWater with the activities of
Muren sharks in the following dimensions:
Comparison of related activity characteristics
Mullen Shark
MuddyWater
direct
target
Turkish Institute of
Science and
Technology or Turkish
Military
Turkish Institute of
Science and Technology
initial
load
Phishing
Documentation
Phishing Documentation
bait style recoverable documents Unrecoverable Document
Fragments
attack
tool
Universal Donut,
LetMeOut
POWERSTATS or other
PowerShell Trojans
15/17
Internet
resources lost site
VPS server
final load CobaltStrike Beacon
Trojan
PowerShell backdoor
By comparison, it can be seen that the differences in characteristics between Muren sharks and
MuddyWater are greater than the commonalities. The two show similarities in attack target selection and
components in the initial stage, but there is no overlap in the subsequent execution process.
Overall, MuddyWater attackers are impatient in component design and resource usage due to the
intensive attack activities of MuddyWater. The organization copied the known attack methods in the
activities of the Turkish Academy of Science and Technology, and the component design was relatively
rough. During the review process, Fuying Lab observed unrecoverable bait content, reused exposed CnC
addresses, etc. Design flaws. Murren Shark is the opposite. Its developers are more meticulous in the
design of components and processes, focusing on hiding behavior traces and personal information to
reduce the risk of exposure.
MuddyWater is a veteran APT organization whose actions represent the national interests of Iran. The
intersection of Muren Shark and MuddyWater in terms of attack targets provides some clues for the
subsequent determination of the organization's ownership.
9. Summary
Murren Shark is a new type of APT group targeting Turkey. Through investigation and analysis, Fuying
Lab excavated the main activities and main technologies of the organization, and determined its
independence and APT attributes. The survey results show that the organization has a clear attack target
and rich experience in confrontation, and also retains a lot of mysteries waiting to be answered.
The complex international relations in the Middle East have spawned a large number of APT
organizations, many of which have a history of attacking Turkey. Whether the Mulun shark is a trickle
after the turbid waves or a surging undercurrent under the deep burial is still unknown. Fuying Lab will
continue to monitor the organization's activities and changes.
ten,IoCs
NiceRender ver.1
0a286239b3fe2e44545470e4117f66eb
88bba0077207359cdb9bddb3760f1f32
423cff633679c5dc1bfb27b4499eb171
NiceRender ver.2 partA
3592e56022ce1d87000e36cc0dd37d0e
bb9e1f1e5ef6f3f9f8de6d12d626c435
16/17
11a5c681e108cf84a2cc669e8204ac53
0a768a5c9f4714f7ca92545baf9f72c9
a92c6617aa28d4041c44f4b9cc3a5fa3
9a31e7918ae4de42c28d67e711802f58
NiceRender ver.2 partB
07e4844bde106bb6786e9e767d376408
9a0889667c89e592914e74916fd1ec56
468b3eaf031b5aef98b34b5ce39facad
c0f37db18293732872643994e12a4ad2
44da01a0a636a6fa3141c698f3bb2673
UniversalDonut
e6c1685e504fe1d05aa365c79a5e0231
32704a3fb28508e3b15bbbd28716ec76
dc60577efe1d18c05b7c90853bac4c86
349341fe3519a81c0178c5840009cf87
LetMeOut
156e197d7838558f44eed800b3b3ee8a
0f5b520120008ca6969ccad439020f98
d509145bcf4e6af3de1a746609c23564
156e197d7838558f44eed800b3b3ee8a
CobaltStrike Beacon
e4b353f731739487dd48e322bf540405
urls
http[:]//jc.neu.edu[.]tr/apply
http[:]//jc.neu.edu[.]tr/r_main.js
http[:]//bookstore.neu.edu[.]tr/KGB%20Numaralari%20ve%20Gecerlilik%20Tarihleri.xlsx
http[:]//bookstore.neu.edu[.]tr/ara
17/17
d0g3.cachedns[.]io
statement
This security bulletin is only used to describe possible security issues, and NSFOCUS does not provide
any guarantee or commitment to this security bulletin. Any direct or indirect consequences and losses
caused by the dissemination and use of the information provided in this security bulletin are the
responsibility of the user, and NSFOCUS and the author of the security bulletin do not assume any
responsibility for this.
NSFOCUS reserves the right to modify and interpret this security announcement. If you want to reprint or
disseminate this security bulletin, you must ensure the integrity of this security bulletin, including the
copyright notice and other contents. Without the permission of NSFOCUS, the content of this security
bulletin shall not be modified or added arbitrarily, and shall not be used for commercial purposes in any
way.
