1/4
Cyber espionage campaign targets renewable energy companies
bleepingcomputer.com/news/security/cyber-espionage-campaign-targets-renewable-energy-companies
Bill Toulas
January 17, 2022
A large-scale cyber-espionage campaign targeting primarily renewable energy and industrial technology
organizations have been discovered to be active since at least 2019, targeting over fifteen entities
worldwide.
The campaign was discovered by security researcher William Thomas, a Curated Intelligence trust group
member, who employed OSINT (open-source intelligence) techniques like DNS scans and public
sandbox submissions.
Thomas' analysis revealed that the attacker uses a custom 'Mail Box' toolkit, an unsophisticated phishing
package deployed on the actors' infrastructure, as well as legitimate websites compromised to host
phishing pages.
Most of the phishing pages were hosted on "*.eu3[.]biz", "*.eu3[.]org", and "*.eu5[.]net" domains, while the
majority of the compromised sites are located in Brazil ("*.com[.]br").
Targeting the renewable energy sector
2/4
The phishing campaign's goal is to steal the login credentials of those working for renewable energy
firms, environmental protection organizations, and industrial technology in general.
Examples of organizations targeted by the phishing attacks include:
Schneider Electric
Honeywell
Huawei
HiSilicon
Telekom Romania
University of Wisconsin
California State University
Utah State University
Kardzhali Hydroelectric Power Station (Bulgaria)
CEZ Electro (Bulgaria)
California Air Resources Board
Morris County Municipal Utilities Authority
Taiwan Forestry Research Institute
Carbon Disclosure Program
Sorema (Italian recycling firm)
Phishing sites set up for stealing employee credentials
 
Source: blog.bushidotoken.net
The researcher couldn't retrieve any samples of the phishing emails used in the campaign, but Thomas
believes the emails used a "Your Mail Box storage is full" lure based on the landing pages.
Unknown actor
Thomas couldn't attribute this campaign to any specific actors, but evidence points to two clusters of
activity, one from APT28 (aka FancyBear) and one from Konni (North Korea actors).
Google Threat Analysis Group researchers have recently found phishing activity attributed to APT28,
which uses several "eu3[.]biz" domains.
3/4
Since mid-Dec, @Google TAG has detected ongoing APT28 cred phishing campaigns targeting
Ukraine. Some IOCs:
 
consumerpanel.eu3[.]biz
consumerpanel.eu3[.]org
consumerspanelsrv.eu3[.]org
protectpanel.eu3[.]biz
updateservicecenter.blogspot[.]com
— billy leonard (@billyleonard) January 14, 2022
An overlap point for both groups is that the hostnames used for phishing credentials are owned by Zetta
Hosting Solutions, a name that has appeared in many analyst reports recently.
"Konni" used Zetta Hosting Solution domains in the Diplomat-targeting campaign uncovered by
Cluster25, and also in a T406 (Korean hackers) campaign analyzed by Proofpoint.
Thomas explained to BleepingComputer that many APT hacking groups use Zetta in malicious
campaigns.
"Zetta is used a lot by APTs and malware, and I'd be very surprised if they didn't know. They're not
a huge company. Threat actors also like these types of free hostname services where they can
setup infrastructure quickly, freely, and anonymously." - Thomas.
However, the researcher underlined that he doesn't have proof or concrete evidence that Zetta Hosting is
knowingly helping malicious campaigns.
Focus on Bulgaria and potential motive
Apart from the two entities mentioned in the victimology section above, the researcher has noticed a
small cluster of activity from 2019 linked to the same infrastructure targeting multiple Bulgarian banks.
Phishing URLs targeting Bulgarian banks
 
Source: blog.bushidotoken.net
The researcher believes that the adversary is financially supported by entities interested in fossil fuels,
particularly someone selling energy to Bulgaria who sees renewables as a threat.
The previous targeting of banks could be an attempt to gather intelligence on the funding and
construction of new renewable energy facilities.
4/4
APT28 is a Russian group linked to the state, and Bulgaria is known to import significant amounts of
Russian natural gas, so the link between this campaign and the particular actors has a logical basis, even
if it's not proven at this point.
 
 
