February 2024 
 Crown Copyright 2024  Advisory  
SVR cyber actors adapt  
tactics for initial cloud 
access  

SVR cyber actors adapt tactics for  
initial cloud access  
How SVR -attributed actors are adapting to the move of 
government and corporations  to cloud infrastructure
Overview 
This advisory details r ecent tactics , techniques an d procedures (TTPs) of t he 
group commo nly known as A PT29, a lso known as M idnight Blizzard, the  Dukes or 
Cozy Bear.   
The U K National C yber Security C entr e (NCSC) an d international partners as sess 
that A PT29 i s a cyber espionage gr oup, al most  certainly par t of the SVR, an 
element o f the Russian i ntelligence services . The US National S ecurity A gency  
(NSA), the U S Cybersecurity an d Infrastructure Security Agency (CI SA), the US 
Cyber National M ission Force ( CNMF) , the Fed eral Bureau of I nvestigation ( FBI), 
Australian Signals Directorate’s Austra lian Cyber Security Centre (ASD’s ACSC), 
the Canadian Centre for  Cyber Security (CCCS)  and  the New Zealand Nationa l 
Cyber Security Centre  (NCSC) agree with this attr ibution and the details 
provided in this a dvisory. 
This advisory provide s an overview of TTPs  deployed by the actor to g ain initial 
access into the cloud  environment and includes advice t o detect and mitigat e 
this activity.  
Previous actor activ ity 
T
he NCSC has previously detailed how Russian Foreign Intelligence Service (SVR) 
cyber actors have targeted governmental, think tank, healthcare and energy 
targets for intelligence gain . It has now observed SVR actors expanding their 
targeting to include aviation, education, law  enforcement, local and state 
councils, government financial departments and military organisations.  
S
VR actors are also known for : 
•the supply c hain compromise of SolarWinds software
•  activity that targeted organisations developing the COVID -19 vaccine  
 
  
Evolving TTPs  
As organisations continue to modernise their systems and move to cloud -based 
infrastructure, the SVR has adapted to these changes in the operating environment.  
They  have to move beyond their t raditional means of initial access, such as 
exploiting software vulnerabiliti es in an on- premise network , and instead target 
the cloud services themselves.  
To access the majority of the victims’ cloud hosted network, actors must first 
successfully authenticate to the cloud provider. Denying initial access to the cloud environment can prohibit SVR from successfully compromising their target. In contrast, in an on- premise system, more of the network is typically exposed to 
threat actors.   
Below  describes in more detail  how  SVR actors are adapting to continue their 
cyber operations for intelligence gai n. These TTPs have been observed in the last 
12 months . 
 Access via service  and dormant  account s  
 Previous SVR campaigns reveal the actors have successfully used brute forcing 
(T1110 ) and password spraying to access service accounts. This type of account is 
typically used to run and manage applications and services. There is no  human 
user behind them so they cannot be easily protected with multi -factor 
authentication (MFA ), making these accounts more susceptible to a successful 
compromise. Service accounts are often also highly privileged depending on 
which applications and services they’re responsibl e for managing. Gaining 
access to these accounts provides threat actors with privileged initial access to a network, to launch further operations.  
 
SVR campaigns have also targeted dormant accounts belonging to  users who no 
longer work at a victim  organisation but whose accounts remain on  the system. 
(T1078.004 ).  
 
Following an e nforced password reset for all users during an incident, SVR actors 
have also been observed logging into inactive a ccounts and following 
instructions to reset the password. This has allowed the actor to regain access 
following incident response eviction activiti es. 
Cloud -based token authentication  
Account access is typically  authenticated by either username and password 
credentials or system -issued access tokens. The NCSC and partners have 
observed SVR actors  using tokens to access their victims’ accounts , without 
needing  a password  (T1528 ). 
The default validity time of system -issued tokens varies dependant on  the 
system , however cloud platforms  should allow administrators to  adjust the 
validity time as appropriate for their users.  More information can be found on this 
in the mitigations section of this advisory . 
Enrolling new devices to the  cloud  
On multiple occasions, the  SVR has successfully bypassed password 
authentication on personal accounts  using password spraying and credential 
reuse. SVR a ctors  have also then bypassed MFA through a techni que known as  
‘MFA bombing’ or ‘MFA fatigue’ , in which the actors  repeatedly  push  MFA requests 
to a victim ’s device until the victim accepts the notification ( T1621 ).  
Once an actor has bypassed these systems  to gain access to the cloud 
environment, SVR actors have bee n ob served registering  their own device as a 
new device on the cloud tenant  (T1098.005 ). If device validation rules are not set 
up, SVR actors  can  successfully register their own device a nd gain access to the 
network .  
By configuring the network with device enrolment policies , there have been 
instances where these measures have defended agai nst SVR actors and denied 
them access to the cloud tenant.  
 
Residential proxies 
As network -level defences improve detection of suspicious activity, SVR actors 
have looked at other ways to stay covert on the internet. A TTP associated with 
this actor is the use of residential proxies ( T1090.002 ). Residential proxies typically 
make traffic appear to originate from IP addresses within internet service provider ( ISP) ranges used for residential broadband customers  and hide the true 
source. This can make it harder to distinguish malicious connections from typical users.   This reduces the effectiveness of network defences that use IP addresses 
as indicators of compromise, and so it is important to consider a variety of information sources such as application and host -based logging for detecting 
suspicious activity.  
 
Conclusion  
The SVR is a sophisticated actor capable of  carrying out  a global  supply chain 
compromise such as the 2020 SolarWinds, however the guidance in this advisory 
shows that a strong baseline of cyber security fundamentals can help defend 
from such actors.   
For organisations that have moved to cloud infrastructure, a first line of defence 
against an actor such as SVR should be to protect against SVR’s TTPs for  initial 
access. By  following the mitigations outlined in this advisory , organisations will be 
in a stronger position to defend against this threat.  
Once  the SVR gain  initial access, the actor is capable of deploying highly 
sophisticated post compromise capabilities such  as MagicWeb , as reported in 
2022.  Therefore, mitigating against the SVR’s initial access vectors is particularly 
important for network defenders.   
CISA have also produced guidance through their Secure Cloud Business 
Applications (SCuBA) Project  whi ch is designed to protect assets stored in cloud 
environments.   
Some of the TTPs listed in this report, such as residential proxies and exploitation 
of system accounts, are similar to thos e reported as recently as January 2024 by 
Microsoft . 
 
MITRE ATT&CK® 
This report has been compiled with respect to the MITRE ATT&CK® framework, a 
globally accessib le knowledge base of adversary tactics and techniques based 
on real -world observations.  
Tactic  ID Technique  Procedure  
Credential 
Access  T1110  Brute forcing  The SVR use password 
spraying and brute forcing as 
an initial infection vector . 
Initial Access  T1078.0
04 Valid Accounts: Cloud 
Accounts  The SVR use compromised 
credentials to gain access to accounts for cloud services, including system and 
dormant accounts.  
Credential 
Access  T1528  Steal Application Access Token  The SVR use stolen access 
tokens to login to accounts 
without the need for 
passwords.  
Credential 
Access  T1621  Multi -Factor 
Authentication Request 
Generation  The SVR  repeatedly push MFA 
requests to a victim ’s device 
until the victim accepts the 
notification, providing SVR access to the account.  
Command and 
Control T1090.0
02 Proxy: External Proxy  The SVR use open proxies in 
residential IP ranges to blend 
in with expected IP address 
pools in access logs . 
Persistence  T1098.0
05 Account Manipulation: 
Device Registration  The SVR  attempt to register 
their own device on the cloud tenant after acquiring access to accounts.  
 
 
Mitigation and Detection  
A number of mitigations will be useful in defending against the activity 
described in this advisory :  
> Use multi- factor authentication  (/2-factor authentication/two- step 
verification ) to reduce the impact of password compromises. See NCSC 
guidance: https://www.ncsc.gov.uk/guidance/multi -f actor -
authentication- online -services   an d 
https://www.ncsc.gov.uk/guidance/setting -two- factor- authentication -2fa 
> Accounts that cannot use 2SV should have strong, unique passwords. 
User and system accounts should be disabled when no longer required 
with a ‘joiners, movers and leavers’ process in place and regular reviews 
to identify and disable inactive/dormant accounts .  See NCSC guidance:  
https://www.ncsc.gov.uk/collection/10 -steps/identity -and- access -
management  
 
> System and service accounts should implement  the principle of least 
privilege, providing a tightly scoped access to resources required for the 
service to function.  
 
> Canary service accounts should be created which appear to be valid 
service accounts but are never used by legitimate services. Monitoring 
and alerting on the use of these account  provides a high confidence 
signal that they are being used illegitimately and should be i nvestigated 
urgently.  
> Session lifetimes should be kept as short as practical to reduce the 
window of opportunity for an adversary  to use stolen session tokens. This 
should be paired with a suitable authentication method that strikes a 
balance between regular user authentication and user experience.   
> Ensure device enrolment policies are configured to only permit authorised 
devices to enrol. Use zero -touch enrolment wher e possible, or if self -
 
Disclaimer  
This report draws on information derived from NCSC and industry sources. Any 
NCSC findings and recommendations made have not been provided with the intention of avoiding all risks and following the recommendations will not remove all such risk. Ownership of information risks remains with the relevant system owner at all ti mes.  
This information is exempt under the Freedom of Information Act 2000 (FOIA) a nd 
may be exempt under other UK information legislation.  
Refer any FOIA queries to ncscinfoleg@ncsc.gov.uk
.  
All material is U K Crown Copyright ©  enrolment is required then use a strong form of 2SV that is resistant to 
phishing and prompt bombing. Old devices should be prevented from 
(re- )enrolling when no longer required. See NCSC guidance:  
https://www.ncsc.gov.uk/collection/device -security -guidance/getting-
ready/provisioning -and- distributing -devices  
 
> Consider a variety of information sources such as application events and 
host- based logs to help prevent, detect and investigate potential 
malicious behaviour. Focus on the information sources and indicators of 
compromise that have a better rate of false positives. For ex ample, 
looking for changes to user agent strings that could indicate session 
hijacking may be more effective than trying to identify connections from 
suspicious IP addresses.  See NCSC guidance:   
https://www.ncsc.gov.uk/guidance/introduction- logging- security -
purposes  
 
 
