1/10
greydynamics.com
/the-five-bears-russias-offensive-cyber-capabilities/
The Five Bears: Russia’s Offensive Cyber Capabilities
⋮ 5/12/2023
1.0. Why?
The Five Bears constitute an integral part of Russia’s offensive capabilities. Russian state-sponsored Advanced
Persistent Threat (APT) groups are part of a network, making Russia one of the strongest actors in cyberspace today
[source]. A combination of advanced tools and solid infrastructures enable sophisticated operations of unprecedented
levels targeting nations in war and peacetime.
However, even though at the forefront of war-fighting capabilities in the digital environment, the 2022 war in Ukraine
suggests a limited significance of offensive cyber operations than estimated. Cyber operations alone have yet to
prove sufficient to gain strategic advantages on the physical battlefield. Still, since the digital environment does not
know state borders, the Russian APT actors make up an evolving threat on a global scale not only in terms of
espionage but physical disturbance calling for proportionate counter- and preventive measures among nations in both
peacetime and war.
2.0. Background
Since at least the 1990s, Russia has engaged in a wide range of hostile cyber operations, from espionage to
sabotage. Since at least 1996, starting with the Moonlight Maze attacks [source], malicious cyber operations linked to
Russia have developed into a complex network of threat actors and operations. Today, Russian state-sponsored
threat actors constitute a broad network of skilful groups conducting operations ranging from espionage to sabotage
on a global scale. Furthermore, offensive cyber operations are acceptable to achieve foreign policy and security
objectives by deterring adversaries, controlling escalation and prosecuting conflicts [source]. Hence, Russia’s
offensive cyber capabilities make up a crucial element in its global power strategy.
2.1. Disclaimer
Attribution is a very complex issue. Groups often change their toolsets or exchange them with other groups.
Therefore, be aware that information published here may quickly need to be updated or altered based on evolving
information. Moreover, cyber security companies and antivirus vendors use different names for the same threat
actors and often refer to the reports and group names of each other. However, it is difficult to keep track of the
different terms and naming schemes, but below are additional lists of known alternative names for each group.
2.2. Terminology
2/10
APT: “An APT uses continuous, clandestine, and sophisticated hacking techniques to gain access to a system and
remain inside for a prolonged period of time, with potentially destructive consequences” [source].
Phishing: Phishing is a type of social engineering attack often used to steal user data, including login credentials and
credit card numbers [source]. 
Spear-phishing: Spear phishing is an email or electronic communications scam targeting a specific individual,
organisation or business [source].
Zero-day: A zero-day vulnerability is an unknown exploit that exposes a vulnerability in software or hardware and can
create complicated problems well before anyone realises something is wrong [source].
Supply chain: A digital supply chain is a set of processes that use advanced technologies and better insights into the
functions of each stakeholder along the chain to let each participant make better decisions about the sources of
materials they need, the demand for their products and all the relationship in between [source].
Trojan: A malicious program that is downloaded and installed on a computer that appears harmless [source].
3.0. The Russian APT Ecosystem
Russian state-sponsored APT actors use sophisticated cyber capabilities to target adversaries’ critical infrastructure
in the global arena. Hostile actors have showed sophisticated tradecraft and cyber capabilities, maintaining a
persistent and undetected presence in compromised environments [source]. Conducting malicious cyber activities
ranging from cyber espionage attempts to suppress political and social media activity, information theft, and harming
international adversaries, the Russian government is utilising its APT network to exercise power [source].
3.1. Prominent threat actors
3.1.1. Fancy Bear
Most known for its attempts to interfere with the 2016 US presidential election, Fancy Bear is a well-resourced and
persistent adversary linked to Russia’s Main Intelligence Directorate (GRU) Main Special Service Center (GTsSS)
Unit 26165 [source; source]. The group has been attributed to hostile operations in Europe and the US, with an
increasing focus towards targets in the east, including China [source]. Fancy Bear has been active since at least
2004 [source].
Other names:
Sofacy
APT28
Sednit
Pawn Storm
Group 74
Tsar Team
Strontium
Swallowtail
 SIG40
Grizzly Steppe
TG-4127
SNAKEMACKEREL
[source].
3/10
A FBI-issued Wanted List of Russian military intelligence officers linked to the GRU. Source: Federal
Bureau of Investigation
3.1.2. Cozy Bear
Like Fancy Bear, Cozy Bear is a well-resourced, highly dedicated, and organised group with links to the Foreign
Intelligence Service of the Russian Federation (SVR) [source]. The group mainly conducts cyber espionage,
collecting intelligence worldwide to support Russian security policy objectives. Its links to the Russian government
date back until at least 2008 [source]. A distinguishing feature of Cozy Bear’s modus operandi is the persistence and
focus on establishing access to specific targets’ networks, even after losing operational control [source].
Other names:
APT29
Dukes
Group 100
Cozy Duke
EuroAPT
CozyCar
Cozer
Minidionis
SeaDuke
Hammer Toss
[source].
3.1.3. Venomous Bear
4/10
Venomous Bear is a highly motivated actor focusing on diplomatic intelligence. It is highly likely supported by Signals
Intelligence (SIGINT) assets with links to the Russian Federal Security Service (FSB) [source]. It has been active
since at least 2004 [source]. The group is characterised by its adaptability, often employing novel and sophisticated
techniques to maintain operational security [source].
Other names:
Turla Group
Turla Team
Snake
Group 88
Waterbug
Krypton
Uroburos
SIG23
MAKERSMARK
ITG12
[source].
3.1.4. Energetic Bear
Energetic Bear is a highly sophisticated actor reportedly led by FSB’s Centre 16 [source; source]. The group mainly
targets sectors of national interest, gathering information from energy installations, Middle East oil and natural gas,
and military communications equipment [source]. The group has been active since at least late 2010 [source].
Other names:
Dragonfly
Crouching Yeti
Group 24
Koala Team
Berserk Bear
Anger Bear
Dymalloy
Havex
PEACEPIPE
Fertger
TEMP.Isotope
ALLANITE
[source].
5/10
A FBI-issued Wanted List of Russian Hackers linked to FSB’s Centre 16. Federal Bureau of Investigation
3.1.5. Voodoo Bear
Most known for its links to the 2015 attacks targeting the Ukrainian power grid and the NotPetya attack in 2017,
Voodoo Bear is one of Russia’s most infamous APT groups. The group conducts highly advanced operations ranging
from espionage to kinetic attacks targeting critical infrastructure. Voodoo Bear is allegedly a cyber unit operating
under GRU’s Main Centre for Special Technologies (GTsST) Unit 74455 and has been active since at least 2009
[source; source].
In late March 2022, human rights investigators at the UC Berkeley School of Law requested the International Criminal
Court in the Hague to consider the group’s operations in Ukraine war crimes [source].
Other names:
Sandworm Team (MITRE G0034)
TEMP.Noble
Electrum
TeleBots
BE2 APT
Black Energy
Iridium
Hades
Quedagh
Iron Viking
Grey Energy
[source].
6/10
4.0. Tactics, Techniques & Procedures
APT groups often change their toolsets, exchange them with other groups, or conduct false flag operations to avoid
attribution [source]. Therefore, the issue of attributing attacks based on identified TTP is complex. However, the US
Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency (CISA) offers some publicly known TTP employed by Russian
state-sponsored APT groups [source], which are accounted for below. Note that this information is not exhaustive but
may illustrate parts of the threat landscape and how some groups may gain access to adversaries’ systems.
4.1. Strategic Objectives
4.1.1. Targeting and Attacks
Russian Government-affiliated APT groups are proven capable of conducting disruptive attacks targeting adversaries’
critical infrastructure systems. Moreover, attacks targeting industrial control systems (ICS) with malware have been
attributed to these groups. If successful, such attacks enable access to protected systems, allowing disruptive or
destructive attacks.
Russian Government-affiliated APT groups have proven to possess a significant capability of maintaining a presence
in compromised systems undetected over long periods. Such presence is enabled through various techniques
offering initial access [source].
4.1.2. Espionage
Espionage activities conducted by Russian-affiliated APT groups target energy, aviation, transportation, healthcare,
and telecommunications sectors, to name a few. Russian intelligence services coordinate the operations to fulfil
requirements ranging from developing cyber capabilities to foreign policy objectives [source].
4.1.3. Influence
Russian Government-affiliated actors strive to weaken confidence in Western democratic systems through covert
online journals and media outlets. Moreover, APT groups are conducting hostile operations targeting government
entities influencing national elections and leaking sensitive information such as medical records [source].
4.2. Tactics
The most common tactics employed by Russian-sponsored APTs are:
Reconnaissance
Resource Development
Initial Access
Execution
Persistence
Credential Access
Command and Control
4.2.1. Reconnaissance
When conducting reconnaissance, Russian state-sponsored APT actors often perform large-scale scans to find
vulnerable servers. Moreover, they typically conduct phishing and spear phishing operations to gain the credentials
required to target specific networks.
4.2.2. Resource Development
Russian state-sponsored APT actors develop and deploy their malware, sometimes combining zero-day exploits for
espionage or destructive purposes.
4.2.3. Initial Access
Gaining initial access, Russian state-sponsored APT actors use publicly known vulnerabilities and zero-days.
Furthermore, they often target the software supply chain, i.e., compromising trusted third-party software to gain
access to a victim organisation.
4.2.4. Execution
Russian state-sponsored APT actors use PowerShell to create new tasks on remote machines, identify configuration
settings, exfiltrate data, and execute other commands.
4.2.5. Persistence
7/10
Using credentials of the existing valid account to maintain continued and long-term access to compromised networks
is a well-known procedure among Russian state-backed APT groups.
4.2.6. Credential Access
Russian state-linked APT groups use various techniques to gain credential access. Using brute force or password
guessing is one of the most common. Furthermore, they often use compromised account credentials to access Group
Managed Service Account passwords. Moreover, they are known to obtain private encryption keys from the Active
Directory Federation Services (ADFS) container to decrypt corresponding SAML signing certificates.
4.2.7. Command and Control
Russian state-sponsored APT actors often use proxies or virtual private servers (VPS) to route traffic to targets and to
hide their activity among legitimate user traffic.
4.3. Types of malware and tools used by Russian government‐affiliated APT groups
While not an exhaustive list, below is a summary of known toolkits used by Russian state-sponsored APT groups.
4.3.1. Backdoor
A backdoor is a malware enabling remote access to databases and file servers within an application. By taking
advantage of flaws in the application, the backdoor is used to negate normal authentication and offer the perpetrator
opportunities to remotely issue commands and further update malware in the system [source].
4.3.2. Credential Stealer
Credential Stealer attacks target an individual’s login credentials to protected systems. Commonly enabled through
phishing tactics, the method is usually a targeted effort as attackers search social media sites looking for specific
users whose login information will provide access to critical information. Additionally, perpetrators often put a lot of
effort into making phishing emails and websites look close to identical to legitimate corporations [source].
4.3.3. Downloader
A downloader is an internet-connected Trojan that downloads malign files onto a computer [source].
4.3.4. Privilege Escalation
By exploiting human behaviours, flaws in the system, or oversights in operating systems, a privilege escalation attack
is conducted to gain unauthorised privileged access. The potential harm varies depending on the attack, ranging from
a simple unauthorised email to large-scale ransomware attacks [source].
4.3.5. Dropper
A dropper is a malicious program functioning as a tool to transport other malware to a victim’s unit. Droppers rarely
perform any malicious functions but contain other malicious tools which are saved on a target’s device without the
victim noticing [source].
4.3.6. Wiper
The purpose of wiperware is to wipe out or destroy data. The malware is targeting crucial systems preventing
recovery options as systems files required to run the system are deleted, making the system inoperable [source].
4.3.7. Web Shell
A web shell is an enabler of further attacks. The web shell is installed by first penetrating a system, allowing it to
function as a backdoor to the target applications and any connected system [source].
8/10
Diagram from US-CERT’s report on APT28 and APT29 (aka GRIZZLY STEPPE) – Image: Wikicommons
5.0. Target Sectors
Russian state-sponsored APT actors use highly advanced cyber capabilities to target a broad range of international
critical infrastructure organisations. Targets are mainly organisations within Government and the private sector
providing essential infrastructure services and the internet service providers supporting these sectors [source].
According to the US Office of the Director of National Intelligence 2021 Annual Threat Assessment, “Russia
continues to target critical infrastructure, including underwater cables and industrial control systems, in the United
States and allied and partner countries, as compromising such infrastructure improves – and in some cases can
demonstrate – its ability to damage infrastructure during a crisis.” [source].
5.1. Common Target Sectors
COVID-19 research
Governments
Election organisations
Healthcare and pharmaceutical companies
Defence
Energy
Video gaming
Nuclear
Commercial facilities
Water
Aviation
Critical manufacturing
[source].
5.2. Target Sectors by Group
5.2.1 Fancy Bear
Government entities
Political parties
Anti-chemical weapons organisations
Anti-doping organisations
Energy
Education
5.2.2. Cozy Bear
Governments
Research institutes
Think tanks
9/10
Political organisations
5.2.3. Venomous Bear
Governments
Military
Education
Research
Aerospace
Telecommunications
Pharmaceutical companies
5.2.4. Energetic Bear
Governments
Aviation
Energy
Industrial Control Systems
Critical Infrastructure
5.2.5. Voodoo Bear
Ukrainian energy sector
Governments
Anti-chemical weapons organisations
Political parties and campaigns
Critical infrastructure
[source; source].
6.0. Prominent attacks attributed to Russian state-sponsored APT
groups
6.1. 2011-2018 – Global Energy Sector Intrusion Campaign
Between 2011 and 2018, Russian state-sponsored cyber actors conducted a large-scale intrusion campaign targeting
international energy sector networks. The perpetrators primarily conducted reconnaissance and launched malware
targeting Industrial Control Systems [source].
6.2. 2015 & 2016 – The Ukrainian Power Grid Attacks
In 2015 and 2016, Russian state-sponsored APT actors conducted attacks targeting Ukrainian energy distribution
companies in 2015 and an electrical transmission company in 2016. Consequently, the attacks caused power
outages and made infected computers inoperable [source].
6.3. 2016 – US Presidential Election Hack
In 2016, multiple networks of US Democratic National Committee organisations were targeted by spear phishing
attacks, giving the perpetrators access to election-related documents [source; source].
6.4. 2017 – The NotPetya Attack
In 2017, Ukraine’s financial and governmental institutions were targeted by Russian state-sponsored actors in what is
described as the fastest-propagating piece of malware. By utilising a combination of the EternalBlue and Mimikatz
tools, the launched malware circumvented patched flaws, taking advantage of a specific Windows protocol. Once a
unit was infected, the malware spread rapidly, wiping out critical data on users’ machines and making them
inoperable. In essence, what distinguishes NotPetya is that it is not designed to be decrypted, making it a purely
destructive tool or weapon [source; source; source].
7.0. Russian APTs in Ukraine: some sightings
Russian cyber operations during the war in Ukraine have inflicted negligible damage regarding strategic objectives.
Initially, traditional jamming enabled a tactical advantage during the invasion. Still, the strategic value of sophisticated
cyber operations has remained absent. The cyber capabilities of Russian operations have largely been
overshadowed by their kinetic physical counterparts. The absence of any significant value in cyber operations may be
due to the infeasibility of burning presence and capabilities in cyberspace when the same goals can be accomplished
through regular artillery.
Furthermore, an inability to integrate cyber operations in a coherent all-domain strategy will inevitably result in
shortcomings, of which logic is the same in any domain. Successful warfare is rarely conducted exclusively at sea, in
10/10
the air, or on land. Another explanation may be Ukraine’s defensive capabilities. As Ukraine has been a target of
Russian aggression in cyberspace long before the invasion, there are prospects for lessons learned and efforts to
increase resilience.
However, even though the strategic value of Russian offensive cyber operations has remained absent, the
capabilities are known, and the potential for unintentional spillover effects. Hence, Russian cyber operations
constitute a real threat to any digitalised society.
8.0. What’s Next?
Russia will likely continue to pose a severe threat to Western nations regarding sensitive information, influence
campaigns, and attacks targeting critical infrastructure. Moreover, as Western governments are reacting to Russia’s
invasion of Ukraine, there are prospects for future attacks.
9.0. Summary
Previous attacks attributed to Russian state-sponsored APT groups highlight their capabilities and the risk of
unintentional spillover to other nations. As Russia will most likely utilise its offensive cyber capabilities, Western
countries face a severe threat requiring joint counter efforts. Moreover, cyberspace does not recognise any state
borders, highlighting Russia’s reach and efficiency in targeting its opponents. Looking at the past and the future, the
Five Bears constitute an integral part of Russia’s offensive capabilities.
https://youtu.be/cdfZsJd4D28
