1/16
blog.bushidotoken.net
/2024/02/lessons-from-isoon-leaks.html
Lessons from the iSOON Leaks
BushidoToken ⋮ ⋮ 2/23/2024
 

Introduction
A Chinese Ministry of Public Security (MPS) contractor called iSOON (also known as Anxun
Information) that specializes in network penetration research and related services has had its data
leaked to GitHub.
Preliminary findings from less than one week since the leak revealed that it contains
unprecedented insights into how the Chinese MPS operates by using Chinese commercial
surveillance vendors and what their technical capabilities are.
The Chinese MPS is China’s internal security service that primarily focuses on internal and border
security, counter-terrorism, surveillance. The MPS is comparable to the Russian FSB, the US DHS
or the UK’s MI5.
The most interesting findings have come from iSOON’s product whitepapers and confidential slide
deck presentations given to their MPS clients.
About the iSOON Leak
The iSOON leak has revolutionized the open source intelligence (OSINT) community's general
understanding of the Chinese MPS' cyber operations. Its significance is comparable to the NTC Vulkan
2/16
leak that impacted the Russian military intelligence (GRU) and Russian federal security service (FSB) as
well as the Snowden Leak or the Shadow Brokers Leak, both of which impacted the US National Security
Agency (NSA).
The leak is around 170MB and contains images of documents in Mandarin. They were machine
translated to English for this blog. Therefore, not all of the facts will be available for a some time as the
community digs in and there may be some misunderstandings in this blog due to not being a Chinese-
speaking analyst myself.
The company, iSOON has had a long development history. Established in 2010, iSOON has been
involved in various activities related to "network penetration research" and "overseas special case
network work" and has conducted national training programs on network security. They have received
commendations from CCP ministerial and central leaders for their contributions. In 2019, iSOON was
selected as one of the first units installed by the Cyber Security Bureau of the MPS.
On 16 February 2024, a GitHub repository ("github[.]com/I-S00N/I-S00N") containing the data dumped
from iSOON was uploaded to the site by an unknown source: 
And also on Twitter:
3/16
iSOON's Services
According to an iSOON presentation in the leak, the structure of firm includes three penetration teams,
one security research team, and one basic support team, comprising a total of around 70 people.
Their primary targets are countries and regions such as Central Asia, Southeast Asia, Hong Kong,
Macao, and Taiwan. iSOON offers services such as "APT Service System," "Target Penetration
Services," and "Battle Support Services" to their MPS clients. 
They have also reportedly targeted various regions in China, including Xinjiang and Tibet, which includes
dissidents, illegal gambling rings, illegal pornography rings, as well as illegal pyramid schemes (which all
come under MPS jurisdiction).
Notably, iSOON featured in a slide deck their attacks on the Indian and Nepalese governments, targeting
government departments such as the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Defense, Home Affairs, Finance, and
the Nepalese Presidential Palace.
4/16
iSOON's Victims
Fellow security researcher @azakasekai_ also was first to find that the leak contains conversations and
spreadsheets about iSOON’s victims, including how many terabytes of data has been exfiltrated from
certain government entities, telecommunications firms, medical organizations, and academic sectors of
countries such as: Pakistan, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Malaysia, Mongolia, Nepal, Turkey, India, Egypt,
France, Cambodia, Rwanda, Nigeria, Hong Kong, Indonesia, Vietnam, Myanmar, Philippines, and
Afghanistan.
Examples of some of the victim organizations include:
Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Myanmar 
National Taiwan University Hospital
Tamkang University, Taiwan
National Intelligence Agency, Thailand
Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Thailand
Ministry of Health, Rwanda 
Apollo Hospital, India
Punjab Anti-Terrorism Center, Pakistan
Beeline Communications, Kazakhstan
Tele2 Communications, Kazakhstan
Skytel Communications, Mongolia
Ministry of Public Security, Mongolia
Nepal Telecom
Chinese University of Hong Kong
Hong Kong Shue Yan University
5/16
Tung Wah College, Hong Kong
Paris Institute of Political Studies, France
Fellow security researcher @haxrob also noticed that some of the leaked files in the GitHub repository
also contain call detail records (CDR) and location based services (LBS) related systems stolen from
telecommunications entities. This highlights that the iSOON operators compromised telecommunications
entities with the aim to obtain subscriber metadata to support intelligence collection objectives, in support
of Chinese MPS requirements. With persistent access to LBS records it would be possible for iSOON and
MPS operators to perform real time lookups of a subscriber's location, quite possibly to a very high
degree of accuracy.
iSOON's Products
A range of products and tools are offered by iSOON. This includes a "Twitter Public Opinion Guidance
and Control System," for monitoring dissidents; custom remote access software for Windows, Linux,
macOS, iOS, and Android; custom hardware for "WiFi Proximity Attack Systems," disguised as Xiaomi
battery packs; an "Email Analysis Intelligence Decision-Making Platform," an "Individual Tool Box,"
consisting of various hacking tools; a "Microsoft Email Encryption" platform, for email exfiltration and
analysis; and an "Automated Penetration Testing Platform," that combines various public hacking tools
into a Software-as-a-Service (SaaS) platform.
Twitter Public Opinion Guidance and Control System 
The Twitter Tool whitepaper in the leak was used by iSOON to sell its commercial surveillance platform to
the Chinese MPS for monitoring dissents. Notably, the iSOON developers also claimed to have a 1-click
exploit to bypass Twitter two-factor authentication (2FA) security controls to gain control over the target’s
account. This exploit was to be distributed via Twitter direct messages (DMs) in the form of URLs, which
iSOON called forensic links. These forensic links can gain access to the accounts but also gather IP
addresses, IP locations, device type, and browser version.
6/16
The Twitter Tool whitepaper also showed in detail how the Chinese intelligence services access Western
social media services and bypassing the Great Firewall of China. The platform enabled the Chinese MPS
to view tweets and Twitter account profiles of target dissidents. The Chinese MPS operators using the
iSOON platform could obtain "evidence" using the collection system in the platform, which involves
indexing content from Twitter users criticizing the Chinese government.
7/16
Email Analysis Intelligence Decision-Making Platform
The Email Analysis Intelligence Platform developed by iSOON was sold to the Chinese MPS to support
intelligence production from massive amounts of stolen emails. The platform was designed for mass
email data analysis that enabled them to mine mailboxes and conversations for personal information, as
well as IP addresses from email headers and extract details from email attachments. It boasted that it can
handle terabytes of email data and index it for performing keyword searches and performs automatic
email translation from any language.
8/16
The Email Tool whitepaper included the architecture of the system that enables mass email data analysis
using machine learning (ML) algorithms, optical character recognition (OCR), and other methodologies.
One of the notable screenshots from the Email Tool whitepaper showed that the platform can also enable
9/16
MPS operators to recreate their target’s inbox and read through their stolen emails 
Automated Penetration Testing Platform
Another platform developed by iSOON for the Chinese MPS is used for offensive cyber operations
against a range of targets, like those mentions in the iSOON services section above. The automated
penetration testing platform is made of various modules built using custom and publicly available tools. It
offers capabilities for all sorts of offensive techniques (shown below), such as running phishing
campaigns, application exploitation, cross-platform payload generation, and RATs, which includes
legitimate remote monitoring and management (RMM) tools.
10/16
11/16
12/16
iSOON Overlaps
Several overlaps and connections associated with iSOON and known threat groups have already been
discovered. The company already had a few ties to known Chinese advanced persistence threat (APT)
groups such as Chengdu 404 (linked to APT41). Additional ties were uncovered through pivoting on
indicators of compromise (IOCs) present in the leak, which adds further legitimacy to the validity of the
leak.
13/16
The connection to threat group called POISON CARP was via an IP address (74.120.172[.]10) that
appeared in the iSOON data leak that hosted a phishing site (mailnotes[.]online). The phishing site was
observed as one of the IOCs in CitizenLab's “Tibetan Groups Targeted with 1-Click Mobile Exploits”
report, which is in-line with the Chinese MPS’ operations supported by iSOON. 
The connection identified between iSOON and another Chinese commercial spying firm called Chengdu
404 was identified in Chinese court documents after the sanctioned firm Chengdu 404 sued iSOON over
an intellectual property dispute.
The connection between iSOON and an APT group CrowdStrike track as JACKPOT PANDA was
identified through another IP address (8.218.67[.]52) that appeared in the data leak. This IP address was
referenced in Trend Micro's report “Probing Weaponized Chat Applications Abused in Supply-Chain
Attacks” which appeared to be focused on targeting the online gambling industry, something iSOON also
referenced as a target sector in their services slide deck.
Further pivots on some of the IP addresses spotted in the screenshots of the custom Windows malware
in the iSOON product whitepapers as well as an overlapping reference to “TreadStone” in US Justice
Department’s indictment of APT41 and Chengdu404. This revealed ties to the infamous ShadowPad and
Winnti malware families. These custom Windows malware families have been tied to numerous Chinese
cyber-espionage campaigns and used by multiple Chinese APT groups.
Using ACH to judge who was responsible for the iSOON leak
Note: This section of the blog is aimed towards my readers who are CTI professionals as well as those
interested in the process of making intelligence assessments. Feel free to skip this part.
The answer, at the time of writing, is... we simply don't know. However, this is a good opportunity to
perform what we call in the intelligence biz Analysis of Competing Hypothesis (ACH) to mitigate our
unconscious biases when making an assessment. ACH was developed by Richards Heuer a CIA veteran
analyst, who wrote the Psychology of Intelligence Analysis. It can help make judgments that entail a high
risk of error in reasoning (in my case, I have only a few years experience investigating Chinese APT
groups). The goal of ACH is to help an analyst overcome/minimize, some of my cognitive limitations to
provide prescient intelligence analysis.
The three main steps to ACH is Hypothesis Generation (identify all possible explanations), Evidence
Collection (list arguments for and against), and Diagnostics (test the arguments against each hypothesis).
ACH encourages an analyst to consider one piece of evidence at a time, and examine it against all
possible hypotheses. We then refine and prioritise our hypotheses before making a final conclusion. To
perform an ACH, a Matrix is needed with evidence on the horizontal and our hypotheses on the vertical.
This ACH Matrix will be used to determine which data points are the most helpful in assessing the
likelihood of the presented hypothesis.
The first step involves developing our hypotheses based on the currently available intelligence.
Generating as many hypothesis as necessary is best practice to ensure the inclusion of all available
14/16
evidence. Ideally, when new evidence becomes available, all of our hypotheses should be evaluated
again. 
List of hypotheses of potential candidates for the iSOON leak:
1. An iSOON Revengeful Ex-Employee
2. A rival Chinese Contractor
3. A rival Chinese Agency to the MPS
4. A Foreign Intelligence Agency
5. An Anti-CCP Hacktivists
6. Chinese Cybercriminals
In an ACH Matrix, a "+" sign means the evidence may support the hypothesis and a "-" sign indicates it
may not. A "0" sign means it neither supports nor disproves the hypothesis. We then use the ACH Matrix
to prioritise the hypothesis with the most supporting evidence
We then need to determine evidentiary dependence. This involves checking if our leading hypothesis has
been prioritized based on critical evidence that, if deemed inauthentic and dismissed later on, would
cause us to reconsider our entire assessment.
In the iSOON leak case, one of the most telling pieces of evidence that it came from a revengeful ex-
employee was the headings of the files in the GitHub repo display a common sentiment that iSOON was
a bad company to work for. The other key pieces of evidence that support it was a revengeful ex-
employee include that they had the permissions and access to the resources and showed that their
employees were working in less than ideal conditions, which involve difficult-to-perform tasks, such as
domestic surveillance that supports arrests and ethnic cleansing of their fellow citizens.
Another valid hypothesis worth considering were whether a foreign intelligence agency was involved in
the leak. However, key evidence that goes against this hypothesis is that the intelligence revealed in this
15/16
leak would be much more valuable for a foreign agency to exploit rather than leak to the world and other
intelligence agencies, who are undoubtedly studying this leak as well (and potentially this blog too! Hi
guys 👋). The other arguments against the idea that a foreign agency was responsible is the potential
danger it could cause, such as putting foreign nationals in China in physical danger or create escalations
with China who would likely retaliate with a targeted hack-and-leak operation of their own. There is
ultimately little benefit for a foreign agency to leak this information if they had managed to steal it
themselves from iSOON's network.
The final hypothesis that seasoned analysts would be interested in discussing is whether an anti-CCP
hacktivist group like IntrusionTruth was involved in this leak. However, in a very un-hacktivist fashion,
nobody has publicly claimed responsibility for this leak, as a victory. Hacktivism is often described as a
cyber-enabled influence operation and by leaking it anonymously, it goes against this common
behavioural trait of theirs.
Conclusion
The iSOON leak is one of the most significant cyber threat updates related to China in recent years. The
tools offered by iSOON and campaigns run by their operators highlight how both the Chinese MPS and
Chinese Ministry of State Security (MSS) outsource their intelligence gathering to commercial
surveillance vendors.
The links already uncovered between multiple long-running APT campaign and iSOON as a single entity
has essentially taken a hammer and smashed the notion of neatly defined “threat groups” conducting
campaigns in a siloed manner. The leak reinforces the idea that APT groups in China are connected to
each other in many ways like the cybercrime underground or even the Western cyber defense industry in
many ways than we admit.
Overall, I anticipate a lot more interesting findings and analysis to arise from the iSOON leak. I
recommend all CTI teams to keep an eye out for mentions of iSOON as more revelations are bound to
appear. 
Further Reading:
The original thread by Azaka: https://twitter.com/AzakaSekai_/status/1759326049262019025
Machine Translation of the leak by my colleague
DE7AULTsec: https://x.com/de7aultsec/status/1759394807091245286
The Associated Press' investigation: https://apnews.com/article/china-cybersecurity-leak-document-
dump-spying-aac38c75f268b72910a94881ccbb77cb 
The AP journalist's thread: https://twitter.com/dakekang/status/1760497207013241189
MemeticWarfare Summary: https://memeticwarfareweekly.substack.com/p/memetic-warfare-
weekly-my-data-leaks
Kris McConkey's Thread on Red
Scylla: https://twitter.com/smoothimpact/status/1760636928716689784
Mark Kelly's Thread on Red Hotel: https://twitter.com/markkelly0x/status/1760408290255663170
Dakota Cary's analysis: https://twitter.com/DakotaInDC/status/1760347298494599197
16/16
