1/3
lab52.io
/blog/gru-military-unit-29155/
GRU military unit 29155
BigBoss ⋮
GRU’s military unit 29155 (161st Specialist Training Center) has been historically engaged in kinetic
active measures such as subversion, assassinations or sabotage.
Soviet or Russian active measures refer to covert operations aimed at influencing third countries’ politics
or public opinion. They include from cyberspace activities to “wet stuff” (or “bloody stuff”, or simply “stuff
that stain your hands”). Among other operations, this unit has been blamed for sabotage at a Czech arms
dump (2014), for a coup in Montenegro (2016) or for the Salisbury poison attacks (2018).
Although unit 29155 was previously known among analysts, it came to the public arena when it was
linked to the “Havana Syndrome”. This syndrome was first found among American and Canadian
diplomats and intelligence staff in Cuba, in 2016, and was later identified in other destinations around the
world. Affected people experienced unusual clinical symptoms, including visual problems, vertigo and
cognitive difficulties, after they encountered strange sounds. Since its discovery, the origin of the Havana
Syndrome has been unclear. Different research has linked the Havana Syndrome to the Russian
intelligence using new generation warfare: from acoustic weapons to directed microwave energy.
In 2023, five separate United States intelligence agencies announced the results of their investigation into
the origin and nature of the syndrome, concluding that it was deemed “highly unlikely” that the symptoms
were caused by a sonic or microwave device or that a threat actor was involved. Instead, they concluded
that this syndrome was a mix of preexisting health conditions, environmental factors and stress reactions.
However, one year after the US intelligence report was published, in April 2024, a journalistic
investigation concluded that the syndrome was caused by hostile operations of GRU unit 29155 by using
non-lethal acoustic weapons.
Neither the Intelligence Community nor the scientific community has reached a consensus on the Havana
Syndrome. In this way, the potential role of unit 29155 in the syndrome is at least unclear, although its
implication in other kinetic operations seems beyond doubt.
In addition to kinetic active measures, GRU military unit 29155 has been recently unveiled performing
cyberspace operations, including espionage but particularly cyberspace attack targeting critical
infrastructures of NATO members, European countries, Latin America, and Central Asia. Unit 29155 is
probably the threat actor known as Ember Bear, and its cyberspace activities date from 2020. In 2022,
unit 29155 deployed the destructive WhisperGate malware targeting Ukrainian victims. At this point, it is
important to highlight that the disruptive cyberspace operations are aligned with the unit 29155 kinetic
sabotage capabilities.
One month ago, a Department of Justice indictment identified unit 29155 as a threat actor linked to the
GRU but separated from units 26165 and 74455. In addition, this indictment details the use of non GRU
actors, such as known cybercriminals and enablers, to conduct cyberspace operations. Even the FBI has
2/3
published a “most wanted” poster for unit 29155 members, as shown in the imagen and as it did in the
past with 26165 or 74455 staff.
In front of the analysis of military units 26165 and 74455, the case of unit 29155 is particularly relevant for
three key elements. The first relevant issue is the rise of a new GRU unit engaging in cyberspace
operations. Not the discovery, as surely more GRU units have cyberspace capabilities apart from 26165
and 74455. The rise: a historical physical unit joins cyberspace arena in 2020 with a small group of young
officers recruited from CTF competitions partnering with cyber criminals. Why? Probably, this fact reflects
the competitiveness of Russian intelligence, not only between different services but also inside each of
them. Is unit 29155 in coordination with 74455 or 26165? Are they independent units? To date, it is not
known.
Secondly, it must be highlighted that unit 29155 performs both kinetic and cyberspace active
measures, reflecting the Russian views on information confrontation. Unit 29155 is a heavily
physical operating unit engaged in “wet stuff”, and now it has been discovered expanding its capabilities
to the cyber arena, in cyber exploitation operations but also on cyber sabotage ones. Since September
2024, it is possible to confirm that the GRU is bluring the line between physical and cyber tactics in its
approach to hybrid warfare, as Russian military doctrine states in theoretical approach.
The last relevant finding is the use of actors outside the GRU to cooperate with the service. The
indictment published by US DoJ identifies both GRU officials and a civilian, Amin Timovich STIGAL.
STIGAL is a known Russian cybercriminal, already under indictment for conspiracy to commit computer
intrusion. The indictment states that STIGAL supported the activities of unit 29155 by setting up
infrastructure to use in cyberspace operations. The use of staff outside the GRU provides a new example
3/3
of the complexity of the Russian intelligence ecosystem and the collaboration between entities (a topic
that was discussed years ago in this blog). Unit 29155 has cooperated with third parties for its kinetic “wet
stuff”: one of the best-known examples is its alleged relationships with Wagner group.  It has been
confirmed that this cooperation extends to the cyber arena.
For sure, more GRU military units and capabilities on cyberspace will come to light. The cyber arena is
an interesting battlefield.
