By Insikt Group
®
September 5, 2024
Predator Spyware Infrastructure 
Returns Following Exposure 
and Sanctions
Although Predator spyware was 
believed to be largely inactive due 
to major public exposures and US 
government sanctions, Insikt Group 
has identified new infrastructure and 
domains likely involved in the staging 
and exploitation processes.
The latest evolution of Predator 
infrastructure includes an additional 
tier in its delivery infrastructure to 
improve customer anonymization 
and enhanced operational security 
in its server configurations and 
associated domains.
Insikt Group has identified at least 
four Predator clusters, including 
one likely linked to the Democratic 
Republic of the Congo, which was not 
covered in our earlier 2024 report.
CYBER
THREAT
ANALYSIS
CYBER THREAT ANALYSIS
Note: The analysis cut-off date for this report was August 25, 2024
Executive Summary
Following major public exposures and United States (US) government sanctions against Intellexa, the
creators of the prominent mobile spyware Predator, Insikt Group and third-party researchers observed
a significant decrease in Predator activity. This apparent downturn in Predator spyware usage led to
questions about the extent to which the aforementioned exposures and sanctions, coupled with broader
global political initiatives against spyware proliferation, had resulted in a longer-term impact on
Intellexa’s operations. However, since this period of decreased activity, Insikt Group has identified a
swath of new Predator infrastructure likely used during the spyware staging and exploitation process.
This infrastructure is likely linked to Predator customers located in multiple countries Insikt research has
previously highlighted. We have also identified a newly observed customer in the Democratic Republic
of the Congo (DRC) that is likely currently using Predator. Although Predator spyware operators have
changed significant aspects of their infrastructure setup, including changes that make country-specific
attribution more challenging, they have largely retained their mode of operation.
Deploying spyware like Predator beyond criminal and counterterrorism efforts poses major risks to the
privacy, legal protections, and physical safety of both targeted individuals and other related entities.
Although most documented abuses involve civil society or political activists, organizations and
individuals in regions with a history of spyware abuse should remain cautious, regardless of their
industry. Due to Predator's costly licensing model, operators reserve its use for high-profile strategic
targets. Politicians, executives, and other persons in sensitive roles are at increased risk of targeting
due to their intelligence value. The widespread, likely unlawful use of spyware against the political
opposition is currently being addressed in various European Union (EU) countries, including Poland and
Greece.
In the short term, as detailed in our previous report on Predator spyware, defenders should follow Insikt
Group’s suggested best practices. These include ensuring personal and corporate devices are not
linked, updating phones regularly, encouraging periodic device reboots (though this may not always
eliminate Predator spyware), using lockdown mode, and implementing a mobile device management
(MDM) system. Additionally, investing in security awareness training for employees and promoting a
culture of minimal data exposure is crucial to reducing the risk of successful spearphishing and limiting
the amount of data stolen in the event of a breach.
In the long term, we expect continued growth in the mercenary spyware market, with new companies
and products emerging. We also anticipate the identification of new victims beyond civil society. Recent
investigations by the Polish and Greek governments into spyware abuse could potentially lead to similar
investigations in other countries. Increased innovation in this field is likely due to ongoing demand,
company profitability, competition, and improved IT security among targets. Moreover, defensive
measures such as continuous public reporting and efforts to eliminate entire classes of security
vulnerabilities may make certain targets—like cloud backups accessed via stolen credentials—and
alternative spyware deployment methods beyond spearphishing more attractive to spyware operators.
1
CTA-2024-0905
Recorded Future® | www.recordedfuture.com
CYBER THREAT ANALYSIS
Key Findings
●
Insikt Group has identified new Predator spyware infrastructure and domains likely used during
the staging and exploitation process. This new infrastructure was discovered through a
combination of network artifacts, Recorded Future Network Intelligence, and other indicators.
●
In the latest evolution of Predator infrastructure, the operators have added an additional tier to
their multi-tiered delivery system to enhance customer anonymization. We also observed
enhanced operational security in the delivery server configurations and associated domains.
●
Insikt Group identified at least four Predator clusters. One of the clusters is likely connected to
the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC), which was not covered in our initial Predator report
in March 2024.
Background
Predator Spyware
Predator, a sophisticated mercenary spyware for Android and iPhone devices, has been in use since at
least 2019. Originally developed by Cytrox and now managed by the Intellexa alliance, it is highly
invasive and designed for versatility. Predator leaves minimal traces on target devices, making
independent audits of potential abuses challenging. Once installed, it provides unrestricted access to a
device's microphone, camera, and all data, including contacts, messages, photos, and videos, without
the user's knowledge. Its Python-based modules allow for the addition of new functionalities without
repeated exploitation.
According to the leaked "Predator Files" analyzed by Amnesty International, Predator infections are
managed via a web-based "Cyber Operation Platform" that allows operators to target specific phones.
The Predator system includes the spyware agent, exploits, and attack vectors, with exploits and
payloads distributed from an "installation server" and devices connecting to a command-and-control
(C2) network. Both the installation and C2 servers must be publicly accessible, while anonymization
networks are used to make tracking the operators difficult.
Predator can use "one-click" and "zero-click" attack vectors. "One-click" attacks involve social
engineering messages with malicious URLs, which, if clicked, exploit browser vulnerabilities to install
the spyware. "Zero-click" attacks, as described in the Predator Files, do not require user interaction and
target devices that have privileged network access or are in close proximity using various network
injection methods. Unlike NSO Group's Pegasus, no fully remote "zero-click" attacks similar to those
involving messaging apps have been reported for Predator.
2
CTA-2024-0905
Recorded Future® | www.recordedfuture.com
CYBER THREAT ANALYSIS
Mercenary Spyware and Abuse Instances
The mercenary spyware market has expanded, with companies developing and marketing spyware
products and services. Although these tools are typically subject to export restrictions and are officially
intended for government use to combat terrorism, investigate crimes, and enhance national security,
ethical and legal concerns have arisen due to documented abuses. This has drawn public attention to
their use. Between 2021 and 2023, numerous instances of attempted and successful Predator
infections have been documented affecting individuals in various sectors and countries, including
Greece, Egypt, and Vietnam. However, these cases likely represent only a small fraction of the total,
given the widespread use of mercenary spyware like Predator, the difficulties in detecting such threats,
and the limited forensic support available for investigating potential spyware use.
Factors Behind Recent Reduced Activity
Insikt Group and other researchers observed a significant reduction in Predator activity in the
immediate aftermath of Insikt Group’s reporting in March 2024 and the aforementioned US government
sanctions. This decline is likely due to three main factors: First, there has been a notable increase in
public reporting over the past year on Predator infrastructure, techniques, and corporate structures.
This likely led to increased costs for both Intellexa and Predator customers and may have led some
customers to reconsider their association with the vendor due to heightened public attention and
concerns about being linked to human rights abuses. Second, unprecedented sanctions and political
actions to curb spyware proliferation—including the US adding Intellexa to its entity list, an EU
resolution, a US visa ban on Intellexa affiliates, and the initiation of the Pall Mall Process—are believed
to have heavily impacted Intellexa’s operations. Finally, from a broader perspective beyond just
Predator, it is believed that obtaining effective exploit chains, especially for iPhones, has become more
difficult and costly. This is due to advancements in software and hardware security, which have made it
more difficult to find exploitable vulnerabilities
Infrastructure Analysis
Identification of New Infrastructure Following Public Reporting
Detection of Delivery Servers
Insikt Group identified a swath of new infrastructure likely being used during Predator spyware's
delivery and exploitation process. This infrastructure was detected through a combination of distinctive
domain registration patterns, server configurations tied to Predator delivery servers, and Recorded
Future Network Intelligence data.
3
CTA-2024-0905
Recorded Future® | www.recordedfuture.com
CYBER THREAT ANALYSIS
Timeline of Infrastructure Activity
Following Sekoia's public report on October 2, 2023, the number of active Predator delivery servers
dropped sharply, indicating a swift response by the operators (see Figure 1). Despite this, some delivery
servers from “Iteration 1” remained active for a considerable time after the report. From mid-October on,
Insikt Group observed and reported to customers the reconstruction of the delivery infrastructure,
referred to as “Iteration 2” hereafter. The creation of delivery servers accelerated in the latter half of
November 2023 and appears to have stabilized at the beginning of January 2024.
Immediately following Insikt Group's public report on this infrastructure in March 2024, the
infrastructure was largely dismantled. Despite the assumption that Predator activity had significantly
decreased, Insikt Group identified new clusters of activity, now tracked as “Iteration 3”, that emerged
during this timeframe: domain registration activity associated with ”Iteration 3” began in early January
2024, prior to Insikt Group’s public report, and new infrastructure and domains were gradually added
over the subsequent months, gaining momentum between the beginning of June and mid-July 2024
with an increase of more than 100% between June 1, 2024, and August 1, 2024. Our assessment
indicates that a significant part of this new infrastructure is associated with Predator customer(s) in
Angola.
Figure 1: Active Predator infrastructure before and after public reporting (Source: Recorded Future)
4
CTA-2024-0905
Recorded Future® | www.recordedfuture.com
CYBER THREAT ANALYSIS
Network Intelligence
Updated Tiered Delivery Network Architecture
In both “Iteration 1” and “Iteration 2”, Insikt Group identified Predator customers using a multi-tiered
infrastructure network. This network also mirrors the high-level architecture described in the October
2023 Amnesty International report.
Initially, we observed the deployment of downstream delivery servers akin to those identified in
previous research (1, 2, 3). These servers are probably employed for device exploitation and gaining
initial access. Typically, they host domains that spoof specific entities of interest to the target,
facilitating social engineering attacks.
Through Recorded Future Network Intelligence, we observed that these delivery servers frequently
communicated with a consistent upstream virtual private server (VPS) IP address via Transmission
Control Protocol (TCP) port 10514. These upstream servers are likely used as hop points for
anonymization, thereby minimizing the chances of linking the delivery servers to specific Predator
customers.
We also observed consistent communication over TCP port 10514 between these upstream servers and
third-tier servers, primarily consisting of leased servers within Autonomous System Numbers (ASNs)
previously linked to Predator operations. These third-tier servers then relay traffic to suspected
Predator customer-controlled static in-country ISP IP addresses (see Figure 2). This represents a
significant departure from the previously identified “Iteration 1” and “Iteration 2” activities, which used
only a single hop between the delivery servers and the suspected Predator customer-controlled
servers. The change, which is marked in blue in Figure 2, likely aims to make it more challenging to
identify countries suspected of using Predator.
5
CTA-2024-0905
Recorded Future® | www.recordedfuture.com
CYBER THREAT ANALYSIS
Figure 2: Multi-tiered Predator infrastructure with additional tier (Source: Recorded Future)
Identification of Active Clusters
Insikt Group has identified various clusters to date, which are ultimately linked to Predator use within
specific countries (see Figure 3). Cluster 1 is active and highly likely linked to Angola. Cluster 2 also
appears active and is likely linked to the Democratic Republic of the Congo, a country we did not report
on in our first report on Predator spyware in March 2024. Cluster 3 also appears active and cannot be
conclusively linked to any specific country, though there are potential connections to both Madagascar
and the UAE. It is also possible that this cluster represents two distinct clusters. Cluster 4 seems
inactive and is likely linked to Saudi Arabia. Alongside these clusters, there are several servers we
suspect are closely tied to Predator operations, though we are currently unable to associate them with
any specific cluster or country.
6
CTA-2024-0905
Recorded Future® | www.recordedfuture.com
CYBER THREAT ANALYSIS
Figure 3: Countries with suspected Predator customers (Source: Recorded Future)
Angola
Cluster 1 is highly likely associated with Angola for several reasons. Many of the identified domains
were in Portuguese, which aligns with historical delivery domains previously attributed to Angola-based
Predator customer(s). Additionally, some servers in this cluster have hosted domains previously linked
to Predator activity in Angola and have been seen in communication chains that eventually connected
to a static ISP IP address in Angola, which was identified as customer infrastructure. Moreover, we
observed suspected Angolan victims communicating with servers in this cluster.
Democratic Republic of the Congo
Cluster 2 is highly likely associated with the Democratic Republic of the Congo. The assessment is
based on the observation that some of the domain names appeared to be tailored for specific customer
countries and were found in communication chains that ultimately linked to a static ISP IP address in the
Democratic Republic of the Congo.
Amnesty International reported that products from the "Intellexa Alliance" have been sold to client(s) in
the Democratic Republic of the Congo. Research by Citizen Lab also identified domain naming patterns
indicative of potential use in the Democratic Republic of the Congo. Additionally, the country has a
history of employing surveillance technologies. For instance, in 2019, an investigation by the Israeli
television program Uvda revealed that Israeli intelligence firm Black Cube had supported the Congolese
government with extensive surveillance, including wiretapping political opposition and activists since
2015, especially during election periods. Furthermore, the Media Policy and Democracy Project (MPDP)
in South Africa suggested that the government likely acquired surveillance technology from Israel’s
7
CTA-2024-0905
Recorded Future® | www.recordedfuture.com
CYBER THREAT ANALYSIS
NSO Group and Germany’s PKI Electronic Intelligence, based on interviews with members of state
security agencies and telecom companies.
Armed conflict continues to plague the DRC — as noted by Amnesty International, in 2023 “dozens of
armed groups remained active, mainly in the eastern provinces of Ituri, Nord-Kivu, and Sud-Kivu”.
These conflicts include clashes between Congolese authorities and the Rwandan-backed March 23
Movement (M23) rebels, among others. Notably, at least one of the domains (nyirangongovrai[.]com)
associated with the cluster linked to the DRC has a clear connection to the eastern provinces (see Table
1). Mount Nyiragongo, a volcano located within Virunga National Park, is situated in a region heavily
affected by armed conflict.
Domain
IP Address
First Seen
happytotstoys[.]com
185.243.113[.]169
2024-02-08
toysfourtots[.]com
45.86.163[.]178
2024-02-08
holidaypriceguide[.]com
185.243.113[.]169
2024-02-21
nyirangongovrai[.]com
98.142.253[.]18
2024-04-03
masoloyakati[.]com
185.235.137[.]6
2024-04-03
lesautreseux[.]com
193.29.59[.]164
2024-04-03
noisyball[.]com
193.29.56[.]252
2024-07-19
yokananu[.]net
185.123.102[.]40
2024-07-19
Table 1: Selection of Predator delivery domains likely linked to the Democratic Republic of the Congo (Source: Recorded
Future)
Suspected Madagascar or UAE
Cluster 3 is likely linked either to Madagascar or the UAE, and it’s possible that it represents two distinct
clusters. On one hand, domains previously associated with Madagascar have been hosted on servers
within Cluster 3, suggesting a connection to Madagascar. However, we have observed multiple cases in
which delivery servers used by one Predator customer were later used for other customers,
complicating this association. For example, the IP address 169.239.129[.]76, which was associated with
a previous Predator iteration, initially hosted a domain related to Madagascar. Later, it began hosting a
domain linked to Angola and was observed communicating with an Angola-based upstream server.
On the other hand, we detected two suspected UAE-based victim IP addresses communicating with a
Predator server within Cluster 3. This server also concurrently hosted a domain linked to another server
within Cluster 3 based on a shared registrant email address. The second associated server has been
observed communicating with the upstream server hosting Madagascar-related domains.
8
CTA-2024-0905
Recorded Future® | www.recordedfuture.com
CYBER THREAT ANALYSIS
Several possibilities should be considered. One is that the email address was used for registering
domains for both Madagascar- and UAE-based customers, which aligns with the suspicion that Intellexa
directly handles customer infrastructure, as noted in our previous report. Another is that a Predator
customer in Madagascar targeted UAE-based victims. Lastly, it’s possible that servers initially tied to
Madagascar-related domains are now used by a different customer, indicating that Cluster 3 might be
linked to the UAE rather than Madagascar.
Saudi Arabia
Cluster 4 appears to be associated with Saudi Arabia. Given the domain registration date and the lack of
additional infrastructure, we assess that this cluster is currently inactive. Additionally, the higher-tier
infrastructure linked to this cluster was noted in our previous reports earlier this year, suggesting that it
is likely leftover infrastructure.
Outlook
Insikt Group has found evidence indicating that Predator continues to be used in several countries
despite extensive media coverage and sanctions against Intellexa and related entities. These actions
have likely resulted in substantial costs for both the clients and Intellexa, leading to a widespread belief
that its operations had largely subsided. Our findings show that while Predator operators did modify
certain aspects of their infrastructure in response to public reporting, including elements of their
higher-tier infrastructure and tactics for detection evasion, they maintain their operations with minimal
changes and often even reuse previously identified infrastructure, in line with previous observations.
The ongoing proliferation of Predator and other spyware products, along with hack-for-hire services
outside of serious crime and counterterrorism contexts, poses a significant threat to various
organizations and individuals.
9
CTA-2024-0905
Recorded Future® | www.recordedfuture.com
CYBER THREAT ANALYSIS
Appendix A — Indicators of Compromise
Domains:
happytotstoys[.]com
holidaypriceguide[.]com
lesautreseux[.]com
masoloyakati[.]com
noisyball[.]com
nyirangongovrai[.]com
toysfourtots[.]com
yokananu[.]net
IP Addresses:
169.239.129[.]76
185.123.102[.]40
185.235.137[.]6
185.243.113[.]169
185.243.113[.]169
193.29.56[.]252
193.29.59[.]164
45.86.163[.]178
98.142.253[.]18
Appendix B — Mitre ATT&CK Techniques
Tactic: Technique
ATT&CK Code
Resource Development: Acquire Infrastructure: Domains
T1583.001
Resource Development: Acquire Infrastructure: Virtual Private Server
T1583.003
Resource Development: Acquire Infrastructure: Server
T1583.004
Initial Access: Spearphishing Link
T1566.002
10
CTA-2024-0905
Recorded Future® | www.recordedfuture.com
CYBER THREAT ANALYSIS
Recorded Future reporting contains expressions of likelihood or probability consistent
with US Intelligence Community Directive (ICD) 203: Analytic Standards (published
January 2, 2015). Recorded Future reporting also uses confidence level standards
employed by the US Intelligence Community to assess the quality and quantity of the
source information supporting our analytic judgments.
About Insikt Group®
Recorded Future’s Insikt Group, the company’s threat research division, comprises
analysts and security researchers with deep government, law enforcement, military, and
intelligence agency experience. Their mission is to produce intelligence that reduces risk
for clients, enables tangible outcomes, and prevents business disruption.
About Recorded Future®
Recorded Future is the world’s largest threat intelligence company. Recorded Future’s
Intelligence Cloud provides end-to-end intelligence across adversaries, infrastructure,
and targets. Indexing the internet across the open web, dark web, and technical
sources, Recorded Future provides real-time visibility into an expanding attack surface
and threat landscape, empowering clients to act with speed and confidence to reduce
risk and securely drive business forward. Headquartered in Boston with offices and
employees around the world, Recorded Future works with over 1,800 businesses and
government organizations across more than 75 countries to provide real-time, unbiased,
and actionable intelligence.
Learn more at recordedfuture.com
11
CTA-2024-0905
Recorded Future® | www.recordedfuture.com
