1/11
blog.cyble.com /2022/02/11/deep-dive-analysis-caprarat/
Deep Dive Analysis – capraRAT
⋮ 2/11/2022
APT 36 Targeting Indian Government Officials via Spyware
Cyble Research Labs has come across an article wherein security researchers have mentioned a new Android
malware named capraRAT. This malware is used by an Advanced Persistent Threat (APT) group called APT36,
a.k.a Transparent Tribe, which has been observed targeting the Indian Government and its Defence personnel.
APT36, also known as ProjectM, Copper Fieldstone, Earth Karkaddan, is a Pakistan-based Threat Actors (TA)
group. In the past, the APT36 group has launched a fake version of the Aarogya Setu Application for malicious
purposes. Aarogya Setu is an application developed by the Indian Government to track COVID-19 cases.
Our analysis indicates that upon successful execution, this malicious application can steal sensitive data such as
contacts, call logs, SMSs, Location, take screenshots, record calls, and microphone audio, send SMSs, etc., from
the victims’ devices.
Technical Analysis
APK Metadata Information
App Name:  Android Services
Package Name: com.example.appcode.appcode
SHA256 Hash: d9979a41027fe790399edebe5ef8765f61e1eb1a4ee1d11690b4c2a0aa38ae42
Figure 1 shows the metadata information of the application.
Figure 1 – App Metadata Information
The below figure shows the application icon and name displayed on the Android device.
2/11
Figure 2 – App Icon and Name
Upon opening the application, the malware hides its icon from the Android device’s screen and continuously
communicates with the Command and Control (C&C) server hxxp://android.viral91[.]xyz/admin/webservices.
3/11
Figure 3 – App Communicates to C&C
We observed the similar domain hxxp://viral91[.]xyz had been used by Crimson RAT to target Windows machines.
The TA behind Crimson RAT is also from APT36, which leads us to believe the same TAs are likely behind
capraRAT.
Manifest Description
capraRAT requests the user for 21 different permissions, of which it abuses 12 permissions which are listed below.
Permissions
Description
READ_SMS
Access SMSs from the victim’s device.
RECEIVE_SMS
Intercept SMSs received on the victim’s device
READ_CALL_LOG
Access Call Logs
READ_CONTACTS
Access phone contacts.
READ_PHONE_STATE
Allows access to phone state, including the current cellular
network information, the phone number and the serial number
of the phone, the status of any ongoing calls, and a list of any
Phone Accounts registered on the device.
RECORD_AUDIO
Allows the app to record audio with the microphone, which the
attackers can misuse.
ACCESS_COARSE_LOCATION Allows the app to get the approximate location of the device
network sources such as cell towers and Wi-Fi.
ACCESS_FINE_LOCATION
The app allows the device’s precise location using the Global
Positioning System (GPS).
SEND_SMS
Allows an application to send SMS messages.
CALL_PHONE
Allows an application to initiate a phone call without going
through the Dialer user interface to confirm the call.
WRITE_EXTERNAL_STORAGE Allows the app to write or delete files to the device’s external
storage.
PROCESS_OUTGOING_CALLS Allows the app to process outgoing calls and modify the
dialing number.
We observed that the defined launcher activity in the malicious app’s manifest file loads the application’s first
screen, as shown below.
4/11
Figure 4 – Launcher Activity
Source Code Review
Our static analysis indicated that the malware steals sensitive data such as Contacts, SMSs, Call logs, and
location. Besides recording calls and microphone audio, the malware also deletes files, sends SMSs, makes calls,
takes pictures from the camera, etc., based on the commands received from the C&C server.
The method hideApp() showcases the code used by the malware to hide its icon from the device screen, as shown
in Figure 5.
Figure 5 – Code to Hide App Icon
The listContacts() method has been used to access the contacts data such as phone numbers and emails from the
victim’s device, as shown below.
Figure 6 – Code to Collect Contacts Data
Through the listSMS() method, we identified that the malware collects SMSs from the device, as shown in the
below figure.
5/11
Figure 7 – Code to Collect SMSs
The method listCallLog() depicts the malware’s ability to collect Call logs data from the device. Refer to Figure 8.
Figure 8 – Code to Collect Call Logs
The code snippet shown in the below image depicts the methods getLocByGPS()and getLocByNetwork(), which
are used to collect device location from both the GPS and the connected network.
6/11
Figure 9 – Code to collect Device Location Data
The image below highlights the malware code that takes screenshots of the device’s screen and sends them to the
C&C server based on the command received from the TA.
Figure 10 – Code to take Screenshots from the device
The image below shows the malware code to collect the device’s details such as phone number, IMEI, country
code, operator details, etc.
7/11
Figure 11 – Code to collect Device Information
The malware also captures the pictures from the device’s front and back camera without the user’s knowledge.
Figure 12 – Code to Capture Images from Device Cameras
The method callRecording() shown in the below image depicts the malware’s ability to record calls.
8/11
Figure 13 – Code to Record Calls
The method micRecording() shown in the below image is used by the malware to record microphone audio from
the infected device.
Figure 14 – Code to Record using Device Microphone
The sendSMS() method can be used to send text messages. The TA’s C&C will provide details such as the
recipient’s mobile number and message content.
9/11
Figure 15 – Code to Send SMS
The below code snippet demonstrates the method gaveCall(), which can be used to make calls on any number
provided by TA’s C&C.
Figure 16 – Code to Make Calls
The method updateApp() can be used to update the capraRAT malware.
Figure 17 – Code to Update App
The malware communicates with the malicious C&C server to receive the commands and sends sensitive
information in response.
Figure 18 –  Malware’s Communication with C&C Server
10/11
We have listed the commands used by the TAs to control the infected device:
Command Description
smslogs
Get SMS data
smsstop
Unregister SMS Service
updateapp Update the Malware App
capscreen Take Screenshots
gavecall
Process Outgoing Call
recordcal
Call Record
recordmic Mic Record
deleteFile
Delete Files
sendsms
Send SMS
Conclusion
APT36 has been active since 2013 and uses various sophisticated malware in its attacks. capraRAT is one such
malicious Android application used by the group which can perform Remote Access Trojan activities with the
potential to steal Indian Government personnel’s sensitive data, including contacts, call logs, SMSs, Location,
audio recordings, etc.
Given the sensitive nature of the data being accessed and the APT group suspected to be behind it, capraRAT
could have severe national security implications for the Indian Diplomatic and Defense infrastructure.
TAs constantly adapt their methods to avoid detection and find new ways to target users through increasingly
sophisticated techniques. Such malicious applications often masquerade as legitimate applications to trick users
into installing them. This situation makes it imperative for users to install applications only after verifying their
authenticity. Apps should only be installed exclusively via the official Google Play Store and other trusted portals to
avoid such attacks.
Our Recommendations
We have listed some essential cybersecurity best practices that create the first line of control against attackers. We
recommend that our readers follow the best practices given below:  
How to prevent malware infection?
Download and install software only from official app stores like Google Play Store or the iOS App Store.
Use a reputed anti-virus and internet security software package on your connected devices, such as PCs,
laptops, and mobile devices.
Use strong passwords and enforce multi-factor authentication wherever possible.
Enable biometric security features such as fingerprint or facial recognition for unlocking the mobile device
where possible.
Be wary of opening any links received via SMS or emails delivered to your phone.
Ensure that Google Play Protect is enabled on Android devices.
Be careful while enabling any permissions.
Keep your devices, operating systems, and applications updated.
How to identify whether you are infected?
Regularly check the Mobile/Wi-Fi data usage of applications installed in mobile devices.
Keep an eye on the alerts provided by Anti-viruses and your device OS and take necessary actions
accordingly.
11/11
What to do when you are infected?
Disable Wi-Fi/Mobile data and remove SIM card – as in some cases, the malware can re-enable the Mobile
Data.
Perform a factory reset.
Remove the application in case a factory reset is not possible.
Take a backup of personal media files (excluding mobile applications) and perform a device reset.
What to do in case of any fraudulent transaction?
In case of a fraudulent transaction, immediately report it to the concerned bank
What should banks do to protect their customers?
Banks and other financial entities should educate customers on safeguarding themselves from malware
attacks via telephone, SMSs, or emails. 
MITRE ATT&CK® Techniques
Tactic
Technique ID Technique Name
Initial Access
T1476
Deliver Malicious App via Other Mean.
Initial Access
T1444
Masquerade as Legitimate Application
Execution
T1575
Native Code
Collection
T1433
Access Call Log
Collection
T1412
Capture SMS Messages
Collection
T1432
Access Contact List
Collection
T1429
Capture Audio
Collection
T1512
Capture Camera
Collection
T1533
Data from Local System
Collection
T1430
Location Tracking
Command and Control T1436
Commonly Used Port
Indicators Of Compromise (IOCs)
Indicators
Indicator
Type
Description
d9979a41027fe790399edebe5ef8765f61e1eb1a4ee1d11690b4c2a0aa38ae42 SHA256 capraRAT
APK
hxxp://android.viral91[.]xyz/admin/webservices
URL
C&C
