3/14/2020
Dissecting Geost: Exposing the Anatomy of the Android Trojan Targeting Russian Banks - TrendLabs Security Intelligence Blog
https://blog.trendmicro.com/trendlabs-security-intelligence/dissecting-geost-exposing-the-anatomy-of-the-android-trojan-targeting-russian-banks/
1/13
Trend Micro
About TrendLabs Security Intelligence Blog
Search:
 
Go to…
Home
Categories
Home   »   Malware   »   Dissecting Geost: Exposing the Anatomy of the Android Trojan Targeting Russian Banks
Dissecting Geost: Exposing the Anatomy of the Android Trojan Targeting
Russian Banks
Posted on:March 5, 2020 at 3:58 am
Posted in:Malware, Mobile
Author:
Vit Sembera (Threats Analyst)
0
The Android banking trojan Geost was ﬁrst revealed in a research by Sebastian García, Maria Jose Erquiaga and Anna Shirokova from the Stratosphere Laboratory.
They detected the trojan by monitoring HtBot malicious proxy network. The botnet targets Russian banks, with the victim count at over 800,000 users at the time the
study was published in Virus Bulletin last year.
The research disclosed the types of information that Geost (detected by Trend Micro as AndroidOS_Fobus.AXM) steals from victims, as well as the activities of the
group behind the botnet, including operational tactics and internal communication between masters and botnet coders.
Building upon this interesting ﬁnding, we decided to dig deeper into the behavior of Geost by reverse engineering a sample of the malware. The trojan employed
several layers of obfuscation, encryption, reﬂection, and injection of non-functional code segments that made it more difﬁcult to reverse engineer. To study the code
and analyze the algorithms, we had to create Python scripts to decrypt strings ﬁrst.
Initial Analysis
Geost hides in malicious apps that are distributed via unofﬁcial web pages with randomly generated server hostnames. The victims usually encounter these as they
look for apps that are not available on Google Play, or when they don’t have access to the app store. They then ﬁnd a link to that application on some obscure web
server, download the app, then launch it on their phones. The app will then request for permissions that, when the victims allow, enables malware infection.
The Geost sample we analyzed resided in the malicious app named “установка” in Russian, which means “setting” in English. The app showed a version of the
Google Play logo as its own icon, which did not appear on the phone screen after launch.
Figure 1. Application icon of the malicious app установка
When the app was launched, it requested device administrator privileges. This was unusual since legitimate apps don’t often ask for this, as it basically gives an app
complete rights over a device.
Important permissions that the user might unknowingly allow include those for accessing SMS messages, including conﬁrmation messages from banking apps. These
messages allow the malware to harvest the victims’ names, balances, and other bank account details. With just a few clicks, attackers can then transfer money from
the bank accounts of unaware victims.
3/14/2020
Dissecting Geost: Exposing the Anatomy of the Android Trojan Targeting Russian Banks - TrendLabs Security Intelligence Blog
https://blog.trendmicro.com/trendlabs-security-intelligence/dissecting-geost-exposing-the-anatomy-of-the-android-trojan-targeting-russian-banks/
2/13
Figure 2: Screen that requests device admin permission
Figure 3: Application permissions requested
After conﬁrming necessary permissions, the visible part of the app will close and the app icon disappears, making victims think that the app was deleted. The sample
device did not show any alarming signs of malicious activity at ﬁrst, but the malware is working in the background and the attackers just gained access to the device,
allowing them to monitor sent and received messages, including SMS conﬁrmation messages from banking apps.
To maintain persistence across reboots, it registers for BOOT_COMPLETED and QUICKBOOT_POWERON broadcasts.
3/14/2020
Dissecting Geost: Exposing the Anatomy of the Android Trojan Targeting Russian Banks - TrendLabs Security Intelligence Blog
https://blog.trendmicro.com/trendlabs-security-intelligence/dissecting-geost-exposing-the-anatomy-of-the-android-trojan-targeting-russian-banks/
3/13
Figure 4: Registering services to boot broadcasts (some codes were obfuscated)
Stage One
Like many malware types, Geost’s run-time life is split into stages. The ﬁrst stage is small and simple, which will then download and/or decrypt and run the next
stage, which is more complex.
The Geost sample’s APK housed compiled Java code in classes.dex ﬁle. It also contained AndroidManifest.xml and resource ﬁles, which are usual contents of APK
ﬁles. It also had a “.cache” ﬁle with a size of 125k.
To decompile the extracted classes.dex ﬁle, several Java decompilers, namely dex2jar, jadx, jd-core/jd-gui and Ghidra, were all used, as no single decompiler was
able to decompile all the Smali code.
Figure 5: Decompiled Java source code
At ﬁrst glance, the decompiled code seemed to be partially encoded in a series of strings; however, character frequency analysis showed random character usage.
Further analysis revealed that the malware contained additional pieces of code that have no impact on the app’s behavior except to slow down its execution. It made
reverse engineering more difﬁcult because the malware split useful code into parts and frequently changed execution paths. Which branch was taken was usually
dependent on some variable with an unknown value. The same is applied with “switch”, “if”, and “try/catch” command blocks. Functions without meaningful code
were inserted to make overall understanding of the malware actions harder.
Figure 6: Example of code with case switch
The non-functional code segments were gradually removed and the ﬁrst decryption algorithm used was identiﬁed. All strings in stage one were encrypted through
RC4, using an algorithm that was split into several functions to avoid indication that it used RC4. After this, the next step was to ﬁnd the key for RC4 decryption.
3/14/2020
Dissecting Geost: Exposing the Anatomy of the Android Trojan Targeting Russian Banks - TrendLabs Security Intelligence Blog
https://blog.trendmicro.com/trendlabs-security-intelligence/dissecting-geost-exposing-the-anatomy-of-the-android-trojan-targeting-russian-banks/
4/13
Figure 7: Decompiled Java source, which is part of the RC4 algorithm
Figure 8: Part of cleaned up RC4 code
Figure 9: RC4 key
RC4 is a stream cipher, with an internal state that changes with every decrypted symbol. To decrypt several encrypted strings, usually the decryption must be
performed in the very same order the encryption used. Fortunately, this was not the case with the sample. The code authors simpliﬁed RC4 without keeping internal
state between decryptions, as the RC4 encryption code always copied state array S[].
Figure 10: RC4 encryption always copied state array S[]
Afterwards, the search for common code libraries began. Android.support.v4 libraries and ReﬂectASM Java Reﬂection libraries were found.
Figure 11: Code with encrypted strings
3/14/2020
Dissecting Geost: Exposing the Anatomy of the Android Trojan Targeting Russian Banks - TrendLabs Security Intelligence Blog
https://blog.trendmicro.com/trendlabs-security-intelligence/dissecting-geost-exposing-the-anatomy-of-the-android-trojan-targeting-russian-banks/
5/13
Figure 12: Code with strings after decryption and symbol deobfuscation
At this point, the stage one code became understandable: It uses reﬂection code to hide interesting classes and methods from curious eyes. Basically, the ﬁrst stage
decrypted the second stage ﬁle with the same RC4 algorithm and key.
Figure 13: Example of reﬂection method invocation
The aforementioned “.cache” ﬁle is renamed to .localsinfotimestamp1494987116 and saved after decryption as ydxwlab.jar, from which the .dex ﬁle is loaded and
launched.
Figure 14: Decrypting and saving second stage
Code authors inserted a false ﬂag, HttpURLConnection and its URL, which seemed to connect to the Command and Control (C&C) server. But this http open
connection is never executed.
Figure 15: False ﬂag
Stage one loads a class from the second stage, which the researcher named “MaliciousClass”.
Figure 16: Launching the second stage
Stage Two
Looking at the classes.dex, it’s clear that obfuscation and encryption were used again in stage two. But this time, the symbol names were partially replaced by strings
1-2 characters long instead of the previous 6-12 character strings. Also, the string encryption algorithm is modiﬁed, making it different from the algorithm used in the
previous stage. Different tools were used. Additionally, parameters of the decryption algorithm were modiﬁed separately for each class.
All Java decompilers had problems decompiling the decryption algorithm due to goto command jumping into the if block. Only Jeb decompiler handled this
construction well.
3/14/2020
Dissecting Geost: Exposing the Anatomy of the Android Trojan Targeting Russian Banks - TrendLabs Security Intelligence Blog
https://blog.trendmicro.com/trendlabs-security-intelligence/dissecting-geost-exposing-the-anatomy-of-the-android-trojan-targeting-russian-banks/
6/13
Figure 17: Smali code of decryption algorithm
Figure 18: Java code of decryption algorithm
Each class decryption method contained different parameter orders and different constants; writing the Python decryption script was made more difﬁcult. It meant
either the decryption script must detect the algorithm setup from the Smali code and adapt itself, or the parameters must be manually set up within the script before
decryption for each class.
Figure 19: Example of an encrypted string
After string decryption, libraries used could be detected. These include:
AES encryption engine
Base64 encoding
Emulator detector
File download service
IExtendedNetworkService
USSD api library
Zip4jUtil
Initialization phase
The aforementioned MaliciousClass invoked from the ﬁrst stage serves as an envelope for the instantiated class the researcher named “Context.”
Figure 20: Context Class
The Context class launches the EmulatorDetector service ﬁrst. It then starts two other services: AdminService and LPService, followed by the main application
Intent.
3/14/2020
Dissecting Geost: Exposing the Anatomy of the Android Trojan Targeting Russian Banks - TrendLabs Security Intelligence Blog
https://blog.trendmicro.com/trendlabs-security-intelligence/dissecting-geost-exposing-the-anatomy-of-the-android-trojan-targeting-russian-banks/
7/13
Figure 21: Main initialization routine
Emulator Detector
The emulator detector checks for signs that it’s running in an emulated environment. The sample detected the existence of Nox, Andy, Geny, Bluestacks and Qemu
Android emulators.
Figure 22: Emulated enviroment traces
AdminService
This service is responsible for granting admin permission to the application. This is a critical part since it enables access to sensitive data and can launch privileged
actions.
Figure 23: Critical part of AdminService
LPService
This service was responsible for keeping the application running and connected to the C&C server. It used WakeLock and WiﬁLock acquire() calls to reach this state.
A side effect to this is high battery drain, which most victims usually ignore.
3/14/2020
Dissecting Geost: Exposing the Anatomy of the Android Trojan Targeting Russian Banks - TrendLabs Security Intelligence Blog
https://blog.trendmicro.com/trendlabs-security-intelligence/dissecting-geost-exposing-the-anatomy-of-the-android-trojan-targeting-russian-banks/
8/13
Figure 24: Locking to CPU and WiFi resources
LPService then creates LPServiceRunnable Thread, which wakes up every ﬁve seconds and is responsible for monitoring and relaunching these services:
MainService
AdminService
SmsKitkatService
This service also collects information about running processes and tasks. It also periodically starts WebViewActivity, which can open browser window to arbitrary
URLs or launch malicious code. WebViewActivity code was not implemented in this sample.
MainService
The MainService ﬁrst hooks to AlarmManager for time scheduling tasks, then registers two broadcast receivers, MainServiceReceiver1 and MainServiceReceiver2.
At the end of the initialization phase, it will launch MainServiceRunnable Thread. When the sample executes overloaded onDestroy() method, it restarts the
MainService again.
Figure 25: Overloaded onDestroy to restart MainService
An important method of MainService is processApiResponse(), which processes commands formatted as JSON string received from C&C server.
Figure 26: Processing C&C server commands
ClearService
This service invokes the ClearServiceRunnable thread, which takes care of locking/unlocking commands (blocking/unblocking user activity) so the botnet operator
can perform remote tasks without user intervention. The ClearService also relaunches itself if there is an attempt to terminate it.
Figure 27: ClearService class
3/14/2020
Dissecting Geost: Exposing the Anatomy of the Android Trojan Targeting Russian Banks - TrendLabs Security Intelligence Blog
https://blog.trendmicro.com/trendlabs-security-intelligence/dissecting-geost-exposing-the-anatomy-of-the-android-trojan-targeting-russian-banks/
9/13
Figure 28: ClearServiceRunnable
SmsKitkatService
This service was prepared to replace the standard SMS messaging application with a different one written by the attackers. In this version, it used a default one.
Figure 29: Code for replacement of
default SMS application
Commands
The list of commands that this malware recognized can be seen in the table and screenshot below (organized by the order they were deﬁned in the code):
Commands
Description
#conversations
Collects the address, body, date, and type columns
from all SMS messages from
content://sms/conversations/, content://sms/inbox
and content://sms/sent, and sends to the C&C
server
#contacts
Collects a list of all contacts from
content://com.android.contacts/data/phones and
sends to the C&C server
#calls
Collects all calls performed from
content://call_log/calls and sends to the C&C
server
#apps
Collects list of installed package names and labels
and sends to C&C server
#bhist
This command is ignored in this sample
#interval {set:number}
Sets time period for fetching C&C server
commands
#intercept
Sets the phone numbers from which to intercept
SMS (“all” or a list of numbers)
#send id:, to:, body:
Sends SMS
#ussd {to:address, tel:number}
Calls a number via USSD framework
#send_contacts
Sends SMS to all contacts in phonebook
#server
Sets scheduled time to run
#check_apps {path:uri_to_server}
Sends a list of running apps to C&C server,
downloads archive.zip ﬁle from path deﬁned in
3/14/2020
Dissecting Geost: Exposing the Anatomy of the Android Trojan Targeting Russian Banks - TrendLabs Security Intelligence Blog
https://blog.trendmicro.com/trendlabs-security-intelligence/dissecting-geost-exposing-the-anatomy-of-the-android-trojan-targeting-russian-banks/
10/13
parameter as error.zip, and unzip it. Zip archive has
password “encryptedz1p”. Default server name is
hxxp://fwg23tt23qwef.ru/
#send_mass {messages: {to:address,
body:text}, delay:ms}
Sends multiple SMS messages to different
addresses, with a delay between sends
#lock
Starts RLA service from ClearServiceRunnable,
which intercepts events from key press
AKEYCODE_HOME, AKEYCODE_CAMERA,
and AKEYCODE_FOCUS. It also intercepts
onBackPressed() Activity method, mutes ringer,
clears all SMS notiﬁcations, stops itself, and makes
the phone unresponsive
#unlock
Disables actions listed under #lock command and
unlocks phone by stopping ClearServiceRunnable
#makecall {number:tel_number}
Calls a number using standard
android.intent.action.CALL API
#openurl {ﬁlesDir=j:url}
Opens a webpage URL
#hooksms {number:tel_number}
Hooks to a number – it forwards all incoming SMS
messages to a number in the parameter
#selfdelete
Sets task time to unparsable string value, which
stops its self-scheduling tasks
Figure 30: List of C&C SERVER commands
ApiRequest, ApiResponse, ApiInterfaceImpl
The ApiRequest, ApiResponse, and ApiInterfaceImpl classes enable communication with the C&C server. In the connection parameters initialization, the value of
replaceWithRandomStr variable was set to true by default and is not changed within the code.
3/14/2020
Dissecting Geost: Exposing the Anatomy of the Android Trojan Targeting Russian Banks - TrendLabs Security Intelligence Blog
https://blog.trendmicro.com/trendlabs-security-intelligence/dissecting-geost-exposing-the-anatomy-of-the-android-trojan-targeting-russian-banks/
11/13
Figure 31: Building C&C server connection string
Figure 32: Connection parameters initialization
An algorithm was used to generate a random string for the C&C server URL. The API connection was then initialized, and the hostname of the C&C server was set
up.
Figure 33: Building random string for the C&C server URL
Figure 34: API connection initialization
Figure 35: Setting up C&C server hostname
An example of C&C server API usage was shown as the C&C server command “#contacts“ was implemented. Finally, parameters for commands are appended as
JSON format and converted to string.
Figure 36: Example of C&C server API calling
Best Practices and Trend Micro Solutions
In its 2020 Security Predictions, Trend Micro predicted the continued proliferation of mobile malware families, such as Geost, that target online banking and payment
systems. Mobile users should safeguard themselves as they navigate the treacherous mobile landscape by following best practices for securing mobile devices. One
such step is to avoid downloading apps outside ofﬁcial app stores.
Unfortunately, threat actors also ﬁnd ways to spread malicious apps via legitimate app stores. Along with the continued campaigns of these stores to remove
compromised apps, users can also avoid such apps by carefully inspecting app reviews and other information before downloading.
3/14/2020
Dissecting Geost: Exposing the Anatomy of the Android Trojan Targeting Russian Banks - TrendLabs Security Intelligence Blog
https://blog.trendmicro.com/trendlabs-security-intelligence/dissecting-geost-exposing-the-anatomy-of-the-android-trojan-targeting-russian-banks/
12/13
App users should scrutinize the permissions requested by an installed app before allowing them. Afterwards, users should watch out for changes in their devices, such
as the decreased performance or battery life, which may indicate a malware infection. In this case, users should delete the newly installed app immediately. Users
should also conduct regular audits to remove unused apps.
For additional defense against mobile threats, users can install a multilayered mobile security solution such as Trend Micro™ Mobile Security to protect devices from
malicious applications and other mobile threats.
Indicator of Compromise
SHA 256
Detection Name
92394e82d9cf5de5cb9c7ac072e774496bd1c7e2944683837d30b188804c1
810
AndroidOS_Fobus.AXM
 
Related Posts:
New Version of XLoader That Disguises as Android Apps and an iOS Proﬁle Holds New Links to FakeSpy
Anubis Android Malware Returns with Over 17,000 Samples
Malicious Optimizer and Utility Android Apps on Google Play Communicate with Trojans that Install Malware, Perform Mobile Ad Fraud
Mac Malware that Spoofs Trading App Steals User Information, Uploads it to Website
Learn how to protect Enterprises, Small Businesses, and Home Users from ransomware:
ENTERPRISE
SMALL BUSINESS
HOME
Tags: androidGeostMalwareRussianTrojan
Security Predictions for 2020
Cybersecurity in 2020 will be viewed through many lenses — from differing attacker motivations and cybercriminal arsenal to technological developments and
global threat intelligence — only so defenders can keep up with the broad range of threats.
Read our security predictions for 2020.
Business Process Compromise
Attackers are starting to invest in long-term operations that target speciﬁc processes enterprises rely on. They scout for vulnerable practices, susceptible
systems and operational loopholes that they can leverage or abuse. To learn more, read our Security 101: Business Process Compromise.
Recent Posts
OpenSMTPD Vulnerability (CVE-2020-8794) Can Lead to Root Privilege Escalation and Remote Code Execution
Operation Overtrap Targets Japanese Online Banking Users Via Bottle Exploit Kit and Brand-New Cinobi Banking Trojan
0 Comments
TrendLabs
🔒 Privacy Policy
Login

1
t Tweet
f Share
Sort by Best
LOG IN WITH
OR SIGN UP WITH DISQUS 
Name
Start the discussion…
?
Be the ﬁrst to comment.
Subscribe
✉
Add Disqus to your siteAdd DisqusAdd
d
D
N t S ll M D t
⚠
 Recommend

»
»
»
3/14/2020
Dissecting Geost: Exposing the Anatomy of the Android Trojan Targeting Russian Banks - TrendLabs Security Intelligence Blog
https://blog.trendmicro.com/trendlabs-security-intelligence/dissecting-geost-exposing-the-anatomy-of-the-android-trojan-targeting-russian-banks/
13/13
March Patch Tuesday: LNK, Microsoft Word Vulnerabilities Get Fixes, SMBv3 Patch Follows
Busting Ghostcat: An Analysis of the Apache Tomcat Vulnerability (CVE-2020-1938 and CNVD-2020-10487)
Dissecting Geost: Exposing the Anatomy of the Android Trojan Targeting Russian Banks
Popular Posts
LokiBot Impersonates Popular Game Launcher and Drops Compiled C# Code File
Misconﬁgured Container Abused to Deliver Cryptocurrency-mining Malware
Dissecting Geost: Exposing the Anatomy of the Android Trojan Targeting Russian Banks
February Patch Tuesday: Fixes for Critical LNK, RDP, Trident Vulnerabilities
Outlaw Updates Kit to Kill Older Miner Versions, Targets More Systems
Stay Updated
Email Subscription
Your email here
Subscribe
Home and Home Ofﬁce
|
For Business
|
Security Intelligence
|
About Trend Micro
Asia Paciﬁc Region (APAC): Australia / New Zealand, 中国, ⽇本, 대한민국, 台灣
Latin America Region (LAR): Brasil, México
North America Region (NABU): United States, Canada 
Europe, Middle East, & Africa Region (EMEA): France, Deutschland / Österreich / Schweiz, Italia, Россия, España, United Kingdom / Ireland
Privacy Statement
Legal Policies
Copyright © 2020 Trend Micro Incorporated. All rights reserved.
