 
 
 
BfV CYBER INSIGHT 
The i-Soon-Leaks: Industrialization of Cyber Espionage 
Cologne, 22 August 2024 
2024 
Part 4: Offered products and i-Soon  
 
 
customers 
BfV CYBER INSIGHT 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bundesamt für Verfassungsschutz | CYBER INSIGHT  
The i-Soon-Leaks, part 4: Offered products and i-Soon customers 
1 
The i-Soon-Leaks: Industrialization of Cyber Espionage 
 
Part 4: Offered products and i-Soon customers 
 
 
Table of Contents 
1. 
Introduction .......................................................................................................... 2 
2. 
Product lists ......................................................................................................... 3 
2.1  Integrated Combat Platform .......................................................................... 5 
2.2  Automated Penetration Testing Platform ....................................................... 6 
2.3  Microsoft Email Encryption Platform .............................................................. 7 
2.4  Email Analysis Intelligence Decision Making Platform................................... 8 
2.5  Anonymous Anti-Tracing Wall ....................................................................... 8 
2.6  Individual (Soldier) Toolbox ........................................................................... 9 
2.7  Integrated Training Platform ........................................................................ 10 
3. 
Contract books ...................................................................................................11 
4. 
Wide assortment of potent cyber tools and services ..........................................12 
 
 
 
BfV CYBER INSIGHT 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bundesamt für Verfassungsschutz | CYBER INSIGHT  
The i-Soon-Leaks, part 4: Offered products and i-Soon customers 
2 
1. Introduction 
On February 16th 2024 a data set was leaked on the GitHub1 developer platform 
that provides a rare insight into China's methods of conducting hacking operations 
worldwide. The internal documents show the extent of cooperation between the 
Chinese cybersecurity company i-Soon and the Chinese government and intelli-
gence services. In four consecutive reports BfV examines the leak in detail and 
describes the level of industrialization of cyber espionage activities by privately 
organized companies, who carry out cyber-attacks for state entities. 
The leak includes over 570 files, images, and chat messages in Chinese, including: 
• a presentation on the skills and services of i-Soon,  
• lists of employees, product information/services, contract books and infor-
mation on cyber operations and target entities,  
• screenshots of presumably captured data and 
• log files of compromised telecommunications service providers in Asia. 
The leaked documents do not contain any indication of affected entities in Ger-
many, however, the analysis offers an insight into the inner workings of private 
hacker companies and providers of malicious software and their close ties to the 
Chinese state. It also lays bare how APT2 groups operate and how government 
agencies leverage them.3 
 
 
                                            
1 
GitHub is an online software development and version management service for software projects. 
2 
Advanced Persistent Threats (APT) denotes complex and targeted threats that target one or a specific group 
of victims. They are usually comprised of resource-intensive, government-controlled cyber-attacker groups. 
The attacks themselves are often elaborately prepared by the attackers, are sophisticated ("advanced") and 
can continue over a long period of time (“persistent”). 
3 
For illustration purposes, various screenshots from the leak were translated and included in this report. 
BfV CYBER INSIGHT 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bundesamt für Verfassungsschutz | CYBER INSIGHT  
The i-Soon-Leaks, part 4: Offered products and i-Soon customers 
3 
The BfV’s evaluation of the leaked data is presented in a total of four reports, which 
are structured as follows: 
• Organization and methods of i-Soon APT units (part 1), 
• Connections of i-Soon to the Chinese security apparatus (part 2), 
• Affected countries and specific targets of i-Soon (part 3), 
• Offered products and i-Soon customers (part 4, this report). 
Following part 1 (organization and methods of i-Soon APT groups), part 2 (con-
nections of i-Soon to the Chinese security apparatus) and part 3 (affected countries 
and specific targets of i-Soon), part 4 takes a closer look at products offered by 
i-Soon and potential customers. 
 
2. Product lists 
The i-Soon data leak includes information on: 
• individual products and product versions, 
• sales units, 
• prices and 
• comments with further information on the products offered by i-Soon (see 
Figure 1). 
The products offered are divided into three categories: “Public Safety”, “Blockchain 
Security” and “Enterprise Security”. The majority of the products are listed in the 
category “Public Safety”. In total, there are 22 products included – each priced on 
the basis of their expected service life, order quantity or priced as a bundle. The 
tools listed include analysis tools, obfuscation tools4, and penetration testing tools5 
                                            
4 
Obfuscation tools are intended to hide the origin, direction and nature of an operation and thus are used by 
attackers to increase operational safety. They include tools for the anonymization of networks. 
5  
Penetration tests (or pentests) are authorized security tests of individual computers or networks that simu-
late a cyberattack. They involve the use of hacking tools and methods to penetrate a system in order to iden-
tify weaknesses and evaluate security measures. 
BfV CYBER INSIGHT 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bundesamt für Verfassungsschutz | CYBER INSIGHT  
The i-Soon-Leaks, part 4: Offered products and i-Soon customers 
4 
for different operating systems and software manufacturers, sandbox systems6 
and monitoring software. 
Figure 1: excerpt of a product list 
For some of the listed tools there are user manuals or product descriptions. Prod-
ucts can either be commissioned individually, bought in sets or purchased as a 
one-year user license. Prices range from ¥ 30.000 to ¥ 800.000 (approx. € 3.500 
to € 103.000). 
A closer inspection of the tools provides an overview of i-Soon’s capabilities but 
also sheds light on the perspective customer-base and those in the market for 
products and services of i-Soon. Some of the products in the "Public Safety" sec-
tion are briefly presented below. 
 
                                            
6 
Sandbox systems are isolated (virtual) machines, which are used to run potentially unsafe software without 
causing damage. 
BfV CYBER INSIGHT 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bundesamt für Verfassungsschutz | CYBER INSIGHT  
The i-Soon-Leaks, part 4: Offered products and i-Soon customers 
5 
2.1  
Integrated Combat Platform 
The “Integrated Combat Platform” is a software solution for cyber operations com-
prised of an internal and an external part. The internal part is used for administra-
tive purposes, the external part is composed of offensive cyber tools (see Figures 2 
and 3). 
Figure 2: the “Integrated Combat Platform” (part 1)  
Associated documents in the leak describe the software’s basic system architec-
ture as well as its functions. Software features include usage management, 
maintenance and customization, testing environments, VPS7 account manage-
ment capabilities and external account management capabilities. Users are able 
to configure the applications according to their needs. The software is specifically 
designed to perform operations whilst hiding the user – providing a level of opera-
tional security. Furthermore, the software has a kill switch to automatically and 
irrevocably destroy itself. The “Integrated Combat Platform” enables large-scale 
cyber operations through its process optimization, resource distribution and plan-
ning and control capabilities. 
                                            
7 
A virtual private server (VPS) is a server that hosts all software and data necessary to run an application or 
web page. The term virtual points to the fact that only a portion of a server's underlying physical resources is 
used. 
BfV CYBER INSIGHT 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bundesamt für Verfassungsschutz | CYBER INSIGHT  
The i-Soon-Leaks, part 4: Offered products and i-Soon customers 
6 
Figure 3: the “Integrated Combat Platform” (part 2) 
 
2.2  
Automated Penetration Testing Platform 
The “Automated Penetration Testing Platform” is a modular and therefore versatile 
system. Basically, the product makes it possible to tailor skills precisely to a spe-
cific goal. If during a cyber operation certain functions are required, users can eas-
ily add missing functions to their toolset. Due to a high degree of automation, tech-
nically not-so savvy users should also be able to operate the platform (see Figure 
4).  
Figure 4 
BfV CYBER INSIGHT 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bundesamt für Verfassungsschutz | CYBER INSIGHT  
The i-Soon-Leaks, part 4: Offered products and i-Soon customers 
7 
 
Penetration tests can be used against a large number of systems. The software in 
question is probably a dual-use tool: a product that can be used for legitimate as 
well as malicious purposes. The platform can almost certainly also be used as a 
tool for offensive cyber operations. 
 
2.3  
Microsoft Email Encryption Platform 
The “Microsoft Email Encryption Platform” is advertised as being capable of com-
promising Microsoft email mailboxes and exfiltrating data. It is supposedly also 
capable of circumventing two-factor authentication and gaining access to accounts 
without the victims’ knowledge (see Figure 5). 
Figure 5: overview of the Microsoft Email Encryption Platform 
The platform generates a phishing link that is sent to a victim. After clicking the 
link, the attacker automatically gains access to the person's Microsoft Outlook ac-
count. The documents state that the platform can be used by authorities to combat 
crime. In principle, however, there seems to be no restriction on the use of the tool, 
so that it can presumably also be used for offensive cyber operations. 
 
BfV CYBER INSIGHT 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bundesamt für Verfassungsschutz | CYBER INSIGHT  
The i-Soon-Leaks, part 4: Offered products and i-Soon customers 
8 
2.4  
Email Analysis Intelligence Decision Making Platform 
The “Email Analysis Intelligence Decision Making Platform” is an advanced system 
to extract contents of email accounts and for the analysis of large data amounts. 
The tool is designed to automatically scan email attachments and create user re-
lationship models based on email communication (see Figure 6). 
Figure 6: overview of the “Email Analysis Intelligence Decision Making Platform” 
 
2.5  
Anonymous Anti-Tracing Wall 
The “Anonymous Anti-Tracing Wall” is an anonymization service with the added 
function of accessing the dark web. 
The software provides four different modules: one for access to the internet, one 
for anonymization functions, one for connecting to other systems and one for ac-
cessing the dark web. The modules are offered as a package and sold under a 
usage license of at least one year. Next to the conventional access to the internet, 
the package enables the anonymization of activities similar to the TOR8 browser 
                                            
8 
TOR is a network for anonymizing connection data that protects its users from the analysis of data traffic. 
Virtual Private Network (VPN) services also allow anonymous communication on the Internet. The TOR net-
work conducts data via random servers provided by volunteers, while a VPN conducts data via a single 
server selected by the user. 
BfV CYBER INSIGHT 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bundesamt für Verfassungsschutz | CYBER INSIGHT  
The i-Soon-Leaks, part 4: Offered products and i-Soon customers 
9 
or other VPN services. The user can freely choose between TOR or VPN-like 
methods for obfuscation purposes (see Figure 7). 
Figure 7: the “Anonymous Anti-Tracing Wall” 
 
2.6  
Individual (Soldier) Toolbox 
The “Individual (Soldier) Toolbox” is a penetration testing solution that is distributed 
on a powerful laptop as a mobile tool (see Figure 8).  
Figure 8: the “Individual (Soldier) Toolbox” 
Many of the functions are generally used for penetration testing, but are also suit-
able for malicious activities. Some functions go beyond the general understanding 
BfV CYBER INSIGHT 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bundesamt für Verfassungsschutz | CYBER INSIGHT  
The i-Soon-Leaks, part 4: Offered products and i-Soon customers 
10 
of what penetration testing tools should be capable of, which suggest a malicious 
purpose of the product. For example, the toolbox also has functions to capture and 
modify data packets, incorporates web shells for remote access and includes func-
tions to actively exploit vulnerabilities. 
 
2.7  
Integrated Training Platform 
The “Integrated Training Platform” is a tool to process large amounts of data. The 
platform can classify data efficiently, store it in a structured manner and make it 
more searchable (see Figure 9). With the tool, users are able to quickly find desired 
information. 
Figure 9: the “Integrated Training Platform” 
The somewhat misleading name “training platform” is not supported by the de-
scription included in the leak. The documentation shows the primary function of 
processing large amounts of personal data. The product seems geared towards 
cybersecurity companies, whose day-to-day work consists of carrying out offensive 
and defensive cyber operations and follow-up analyses. 
 
BfV CYBER INSIGHT 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bundesamt für Verfassungsschutz | CYBER INSIGHT  
The i-Soon-Leaks, part 4: Offered products and i-Soon customers 
11 
3. Contract books 
The leaked data also contains information on i-Soon’s contract books. With this, 
the target groups of the products and services offered by i-Soon can be traced. 
The company groups its consumer base into four categories: 
• Public Security / 公安 (probably the Ministry of Public Security (MPS)9 /  
公安部), 
• Safety 安全 (probably the Ministry of State Security (MSS)10 / 安全部), 
• Military (probably the People's Liberation Army of the PRC (PLA)), 
• Enterprise (other private companies, often similar to i-Soon). 
The contract books also hold information on contract titles and partners, end users, 
the date of contract fulfillment, purchase price and a brief summary of contractual 
obligations and services. The information supports the publicly known mode of op-
eration, whereby the MSS – with the involvement of so-called contract hackers – 
carries out cyber operations against targets worldwide and sometimes uses anon-
ymization networks for this purpose. This background helps to understand the con-
tract titles listed in the data leak, for example: 
• “Network Technology Service Contract” (a contract for technical network 
services, noted in the contract book as the acquisition of various email ac-
counts), 
• “Technical Cooperation Agreement” (probably means a hacking consign-
ment), 
• “Overseas Data Inquiry” (probably referring to cyber operations overseas), 
• “Data Purchase Contract” (the acquisition of specific target data) and 
• “Anti-Tracing Sales Contract” (anonymization networks for the conceal-
ment of cyber operations). 
 
                                            
9 
The MPS is responsible for public and political security in China. It is the superior authority of the police and 
also performs tasks in the field of counter-espionage. 
10 
Civil Intelligence and Secret Police. Responsible for foreign espionage, anti-espionage and political security. 
BfV CYBER INSIGHT 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bundesamt für Verfassungsschutz | CYBER INSIGHT  
The i-Soon-Leaks, part 4: Offered products and i-Soon customers 
12 
4. Wide assortment of potent cyber tools and services 
The evaluation of product lists and product manuals in the i-Soon-leaks shows the 
far-reaching arsenal of potent cyber tools of one single company. The products are 
catered towards bodies tasked with public safety and clearly aimed at security au-
thorities in China. With the products and services on offer it is possible to carry out 
widespread cyber operations against foreign targets and governments.  
The examples show i-Soon’s continued efforts to consolidate or expand its market 
position. In order to be competitive and to be awarded government contracts, com-
panies such as i-Soon are forced to constantly improve their products and price 
them competitively. The result is potential clients, such as government agencies, 
who profit from cheap tailor-made cyber tools.  
An assessment of the product descriptions shows modularly designed hacking 
tools that can be variably combined with one another. In addition, they offer user 
interfaces that make the tools easily accessible and usable even for untrained us-
ers. The tools can be efficiently used against selected targets depending on de-
sired objectives. The analysis also shows the danger arising from these tools. The 
number of affected countries and entities11 proves that these tools are already be-
ing successfully used for worldwide campaigns. 
It is apparent that an extensive industrialization of cyber espionage has already 
taken place in the Chinese cyber ecosystem. Here, a market has developed in 
which many providers offer their products to the public sector. This has led to gov-
ernment entities gaining access to potent cyber tools and has fostered an ongoing 
innovation process and steady professionalization of the Chinese cyber market. 
The previous reporting on i-Soon exposes the organization and methods of its APT 
units (part 1), examines the links to the Chinese security apparatus (part 2) and 
covers affected countries and specific targets of i-Soon (part 3). 
 
 
                                            
11 
cf. “The i-Soon-Leaks, part 3: Affected countries and specific targets of i-Soon” 
BfV CYBER INSIGHT 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bundesamt für Verfassungsschutz | CYBER INSIGHT  
The i-Soon-Leaks, part 4: Offered products and i-Soon customers 
13 
 
 
 
 
Publication information 
 
Published by 
Bundesamt für Verfassungsschutz 
Abteilung 4 
Merianstraße 100 
50765 Köln 
poststelle@bfv.bund.de  
www.verfassungsschutz.de 
Tel.: +49 (0) 228/99 792-0 
Fax: +49 (0) 228/99 792-2600 
Image credits 
cover: BfV, ai-generated 
Date of Information 
July 2024 
