Summary
Kaspersky Lab has been tracking a series of attacks utilizing unknown malware since early 2017. The
attacks appear to be geopolitically motivated and target high profile organizations. The objective of
the attacks is clearly espionage – they involve gaining access to top legislative, executive and judicial
bodies around the world.
1. The attackers have targeted a large number of organizations globally since early 2017, with the
main focus on the Middle East and North Africa (MENA), especially Palestine. High-profile
organizations have also been targeted in other regions. The number of attacks has decreased
since the beginning of 2018.
2. The attacks were initially discovered while investigating a phishing attack that targeted political
figures in the MENA region. At first the attacks looked to be the work of the low-sophistication
Gaza Cybergang (decoys, file names), but further analysis painted a very different picture.
3. Targets include high-profile entities such as parliaments, senates, top state offices and officials,
political science scholars, military and intelligence agencies, ministries, media outlets, research
centers, election commissions, Olympic organizations, large trading companies, and other
unknown entities.
4. The malware basically provides a remote CMD/PowerShell terminal for the attackers, enabling
them to execute any scripts/commands and receive the result via HTTP requests.
5. Kaspersky Lab users and Threat Management and Defense clients are protected from the attacks.
Kaspersky Security Bulletin: Review of the Year 2017
Kaspersky Security Bulletin: Threat Predictions for 2018
Threat Predictions for Industrial Security in 2018
Kaspersky Security Bulletin 2016. Review of the year.
Overall statistics for 2016
Kaspersky Security Bulletin. Predictions for 2017
Kaspersky Security Bulletin 2015. Evolution of cyber
threats in the corporate sector
APT REPORTS
Operation Parliament, who
is doing what?
By GReAT on April 12, 2018. 7:00 am
THREATS
CATEGORIES
TAGS
ENCYCLOPEDIA
STATISTICS
DESCRIPTIONS
English
Save web pages as PDF with PDFmyURL
Cisco Talos recently published a blogpost describing targeted attacks in the Middle East region which
we believe may be connected.
Victimology and Statistics
Based on our findings, we believe the attackers represent a previously unknown geopolitically
motivated threat actor. The campaign started in 2017, with the attackers doing just enough to
achieve their goals. They most likely have access to additional tools when needed and appear to have
access to an elaborate database of contacts in sensitive organizations and personnel worldwide,
especially of vulnerable and non-trained staff. The victim systems range from personal desktop or
laptop systems to large servers with domain controller roles or similar. The nature of the targeted
ministries varied, including those responsible for telecommunications, health, energy, justice, finance
and so on.
Victims have been spotted in the Palestinian Territories, Egypt, Jordan, the UAE, Saudi Arabia,
Djibouti, Qatar, Lebanon, Chile, Somalia, Iraq, Morocco, Syria, India, Iran, Canada, the USA, the UK,
Germany, Israel, Afghanistan, Serbia, Russia, Oman, Kuwait, South Korea and Denmark.
Vict im  organiz at ion t ype
Num be r of vict im
organiz at ions
Unknown
91
Senates/Parliaments
7
Prime Ministerial Offices
3
Military/Intelligence Agencies
5
Other Gov./Ministerial/Diplomatic
Offices
20
Financial/Banking Institutions
5
Media Outlets
2
Olympic/Sports Bodies
2
Research Centers/Scholars
2
Election Commissions
1
Save web pages as PDF with PDFmyURL
Distribution/Logistics
1
The number of victims/victim organizations probably doesn’t represent the full scope of the attacks
– only a portion.
Attack description and attribution
Operation Parliament appears to be another symptom of escalating tensions in the Middle East
region. The attackers have taken great care to stay under the radar, imitating another attack group in
the region. They have been particularly careful to verify victim devices before proceeding with the
infection, safeguarding their command and control servers. The targeting seems to have slowed
down since the beginning of 2018, probably winding down when the desired data or access was
Save web pages as PDF with PDFmyURL
obtained. The targeting of specific victims is unlike previously seen behavior in regional campaigns by
Gaza Cybergang or Desert Falcons and points to an elaborate information-gathering exercise that
was carried out before the attacks (physical and/or digital).
With deception and false flags increasingly being employed by threat actors, attribution is a hard and
complicated task that requires solid evidence, especially in complex regions such as the Middle East.
See the following for more information and examples of false flags being used in cyberattacks:
Wave your false flags! …or the Nightmares and Nuances of a Self-Aware Attribution Space
OlympicDestroyer is here to trick the industry
Malware description
The malware was first seen packed with VMProtect; when unpacked the sample didn’t show any
similarities with previously known malware. All the strings and settings were encrypted and
obfuscated. Functionality was identified that enables HTTP communication with the C&C server and
invokes “processcreate” based on parameters received as a response.
The configuration and strings are encrypted using 3DES and Base64 encoding. Data sent to the C&C
server is also encrypted using 3DES and Base64. Different keys are used for local and network
encryption.
The malware starts communicating with the C&C server by sending basic information about the
infected machine. The C&C server then replies with the encrypted serialized configuration.
The malware basically provides a remote CMD/PowerShell terminal for the attackers, enabling them
to execute scripts/commands and receive the results via HTTP requests.
Save web pages as PDF with PDFmyURL
Sample of the C&C response with encrypted commands and configurations
Examples of attack decoys
Translation: Contacts list of media personnel
Save web pages as PDF with PDFmyURL
Translation: Relations between UAE and Jordan, and the impact caused by the non-boycott
of Qatar
Save web pages as PDF with PDFmyURL
Translation: Military retirement statement 2017 June
Save web pages as PDF with PDFmyURL
Translation: The new Hamas structure for Gaza strip 2017
Save web pages as PDF with PDFmyURL
Translation: Clarification report (on Gaza employee salaries)
What should high-proﬁle organizations
do?
High-profile organizations should have elevated levels of cybersecurity. Attacks against them are
inevitable and are unlikely to ever cease. These organizations need to pay particular attention to their
security, implementing additional measures to ensure they are well protected. Anti-targeted attack
solutions, threat intelligence capabilities and data flows, default-deny application lockdown, endpoint
detection and response, data leak and insider threat prevention, and even isolated/air-gapped
networks should form the basis of any strategy for protecting organizations in the current threat
landscape.
Save web pages as PDF with PDFmyURL
Share post on:
The victims of Operation Parliament need to re-evaluate their approach to cybersecurity.
Additional information
For more information about the attacks and the indicators of compromise, please contact:
intelreports@kaspersky.com
Alternatively, please visit: https://www.kaspersky.com/enterprise-security/apt-intelligence-reporting
To find more information about cybersecurity awareness training for enterprise or government staff,
go to Kaspersky Security Awareness.
APT  CYBER ESPIONAGE  TARGETED ATTACK
Related Posts
LEAVE A REPLY
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
 
 



APT Trends report Q1
2018
Your new friend, KLara
Masha and these
Bears
Save web pages as PDF with PDFmyURL
Enter your comment here
Name *
Email *
 
SUBMIT
Notify me when new comments are added.
Save web pages as PDF with PDFmyURL
 
reCAPTCHA
Please upgrade to a supported browser
to get a reCAPTCHA challenge.
Alternatively if you think you are getting
this page in error, please check your
internet connection and reload.
Why is this happening to me?
© 2018 AO Kaspersky Lab. All Rights Reserved. 
Registered trademarks and service marks are the property of their respective owners.
Contact us | Privacy Policy | License Agreement
Email
SUBSCRIBE
Save web pages as PDF with PDFmyURL
