1/6
securelist.com
/apt-trends-report-q2-2024/113275/
APT trends report Q2 2024
GReAT ⋮ ⋮ 8/13/2024
For over six years now, Kaspersky’s Global Research and Analysis Team (GReAT) has been sharing
quarterly updates on advanced persistent threats (APTs). These summaries draw on our threat
intelligence research, offering a representative overview of what we’ve published and discussed in more
detail in our private APT reports. They’re designed to highlight the key events and findings that we think
people should know about.
In this latest installment, we focus on activities that we observed during Q2 2024.
Readers who would like to learn more about our intelligence reports or request more information about a
specific report, are encouraged to contact intelreports@kaspersky.com.
Most notable findings
In March, a backdoor was discovered in XZ, a compression utility integrated into many popular
distributions of Linux. The backdoored library liblzma is used by the OpenSSH server process sshd.
OpenSSH is patched to use systemd features on a number of systemd-based distributions, including
Ubuntu, Debian and RedHat/Fedora Linux, and therefore depends on this library (Arch Linux and Gentoo
are not affected). The code was inserted in February and March 2024, mostly by Jia Cheong Tan –
probably a fictitious identity. The likely goal of the attack was to introduce exclusive remote code
execution capabilities into the sshd process by targeting the XZ build process, and then to push the
backdoored code to major Linux distributions as a part of a large-scale supply-chain attack. The attackers
used social engineering to gain prolonged access to the source/development environment, and extended
that access by faking human interactions in plain sight to build credibility for introducing the malicious
code.
There are two levels at which the backdoor in the liblzma library was introduced. The source code of the
build infrastructure that generated the final packages was tweaked slightly (by adding an extra file, build-
to-host.m4) to extract the next stage script that was hidden in a test case file (
bad-3-corrupt_lzma2.xz).
The script then extracted a malicious binary component from another test case file (
good-
large_compressed.lzma) that was linked with the legitimate library during the compilation process to be
shipped to Linux repositories. Some of the big vendors ended up shipping the malicious component in
beta and experimental builds without realizing it. The compromise of XZ Utils was given the identifier
CVE-2024-3094 and a maximum severity score of 10.
The attackers’ initial goal was to successfully hook one of the functions related to RSA key manipulation.
In our analysis of the hook process, we focused on the backdoor’s behavior inside OpenSSH, specifically
OpenSSH portable version 9.7p1 (the most recent version). Our analysis revealed a number of
interesting details about the functionality of the backdoor.
2/6
The attacker set an anti-replay feature to make sure the backdoor communication couldn’t be
captured or hijacked.
The author hid the public key for backdoor decryption in the x86 code using a custom
steganography technique.
The backdoor hooks the logging function to hide its logs of unauthorized connections to the SSH
server.
The backdoor hooks the password authentication function, which allows the attacker to use any
username/password to log in to the infected server without any further checks. It also does the
same for public key authentication.
The backdoor has remote code execution capabilities, which means the attacker can run any
system command on the infected server.
You can read our analysis here, here and here.
Chinese-speaking activity
In an earlier report on ToddyCat, we described various tools used to collect and exfiltrate files of interest
to this APT threat actor. One of these tools was PcExter, which was initially only used to exfiltrate data
previously collected with the help of other tools, such as FileScan. However, we recently found a new
version, PcExter 2.0, which has been completely redesigned and rewritten in .NET to be able to collect
the data itself, as well as use an improved file search mechanism. We found several versions of this tool,
together with a set of special loaders.
In 2021, we published a private report describing the technical details of QSC, a framework that was
discovered while investigating an attack on the telecoms industry in South Asia. While our research did
not reveal how the framework was deployed, or the threat group behind it, we continued to monitor our
telemetry for further detections of the QSC framework. In October 2023, we saw multiple detections of
QSC framework files in the West Asia region targeting an ISP. Our investigation revealed that the target
machines had already been infected with Quarian Backdoor version 3 (aka Turian) since 2022, and the
same attackers used this access to deploy the QSC framework starting from October 10, 2023. In
addition to the QSC framework, the attackers also deployed a new backdoor written in Golang, which we
named “GoClient”: we saw the first deployment of this GoClient backdoor on October 17, 2023. After
analyzing all the artifacts from this campaign, we assess with medium confidence that the
CloudComputating threat actor is behind the deployment of the QSC framework and the GoClient
backdoor.
Early in 2023, the activities of GOFFEE were discovered when this threat actor used a modified version
of a monitored malicious IIS module called Owowa. Since then, GOFFEE has stopped using Owowa, as
well as a PowerShell RCE implant VisualTaskel; however, it has continued to conduct intrusions
leveraging PowerTaskel, the threat actor’s previous HTA-based infection chain, and has added a new
loader, disguised as a legitimate document and distributed via email, to its arsenal.
We recently found a new remote access tool (RAT) with a low detection rate called SalmonQT that was
uploaded from a computer in China to a public multi-scanner platform. What caught our attention was that
the sample used GitHub’s REST API to accept instructions and upload data, thereby acting as a C2
(command and control) server. At first glance, it appeared that the path to the GitHub repository had been
3/6
deleted, but on closer inspection, the repository was set to private and the REST API could only be
accessed using the correct token. The C2 server was active from early January 2024 up to the
completion of our report at the end of June this year. We attribute this newly discovered RAT with low
confidence to the threat actor CNC. CNC (aka APT-C-48) is highly focused on Chinese entities.
Middle East
Gaza Cybergang has been active since at least 2012, targeting the Middle East and North Africa. When
we first started tracking the group, its attacks were relatively basic in nature, often relying on publicly
available malware families such as QuasarRAT. Nevertheless, the group exhibited a particular TTP that
we can still see today – going after only a few targets per campaign. At the start of this year we detected
several cases involving Gaza Cybergang in which the threat actor adjusted its TTPs slightly. Instead of
using tabcal.exe as a vehicle to sideload its initial access downloader IronWind, the group switched to
setup_wm.exe, another legitimate Windows Media Utility file. The lures were also changed to a more
generic theme, rather than focusing on a specific geopolitical situation.
Southeast Asia and Korean Peninsula
We discovered Mysterious Elephant in 2023 while investigating attacks using a set of malware families
previously associated with other known threat actors, such as SideWinder and Confucius. As we
analyzed the infrastructure, we realized that the attacks were not in fact delivered by any of the previously
known actors, but by a new threat actor that we dubbed Mysterious Elephant. The threat actor has
remained active since then and has launched several attacks since our initial report. We have discovered
a wealth of new malware families developed and used by Mysterious Elephant in its recent attacks, as
well as recently created infrastructure and updated tools – mostly backdoors and loaders to minimize
detection in the early stages of attacks. In our report, we describe the latest attacks delivered by this
threat actor and analyze the newly discovered malware samples and associated infrastructure.
Hacktivism
With the start of the Russian-Ukrainian conflict in February 2022, hundreds of different hacktivist groups
have emerged on both sides. One such group is -=Twelve=-. This group announced itself in the
information sphere by claiming to have hacked various government and industrial enterprises of the
Russian Federation. Some of the targets were published on the group’s official channel on its own
platform, while others remained in the shadows. While there are several reports on the internet about the
Twelve group from various CTI (Cyber Threat Intelligence) vendors that attempt to describe the group’s
activities, we have not seen any that detail the tools and techniques used in the attacks. Our report on
Twelve provides a detailed overview of the TTPs used by the group, as well as the connections to its
infrastructure.
In February, the Institute of Geography and Statistics of Albania (INSTAT) was attacked. The attack was
the work of Homeland Justice – a self-described hacktivist group, but suspected of being a state
sponsored group – that has been relentlessly attacking Albanian targets, particularly in the government
sector, for over three years. The attackers were able to obtain more than 100TB of data, as well as
disrupt the official websites and email services of organizations and wipe database servers and backups.
4/6
One of the main reasons for the attacks is the presence of a Mujahedeen-e-Khalq (MEK) refugee camp
on Albanian territory: Homeland Justice considers this group to be a terrorist organization and believes
that specific sectors of the Albanian government and certain companies provide them with support and
funding. The threat actor conducts ongoing cyber operations aimed at conveying its anti-MEK political
message. They are attempting to garner support among the Albanian people for the government to
abandon the MEK – their actions are framed within what are known as psychological operations
(PsyOps) campaigns.
We have analyzed the group’s campaign history, which spans almost three years of cyberattacks aimed
at exerting long-term pressure on the Albanian government and populace. In our report, we cover its
main campaigns, ranging from sophisticated operations involving collaboration with allied groups with the
same aims, to opportunistic attacks. We also describe the main techniques employed by the group, which
range from exploiting internet-facing servers for initial access, lateral movement activities, expanding the
attack surface, to using custom wiping malware and ransomware in the final disruptive phase of the cyber
operations. Additionally, we examine the group’s persuasion mechanisms, such as amplifying messaging
through social networks and news media, sharing stolen data to gain notoriety and advocate for change,
and the continual threat of future attacks to induce a state of permanent vigilance among its targets.
Other interesting discoveries
We discovered a new modular malware framework, which we dubbed “Aniseed Vodka”, on a system in
East Africa: the system was infected in 2018. The framework consists of a main module, a JSON-
formatted configuration file, and a set of plug-ins. The framework is highly configurable, allowing its
operator both to specify operating parameters for plug-ins and to schedule plug-in tasks (such as screen
capture, webcam capture, and data exfiltration) at specific intervals. The framework employs anti-
detection and anti-forensics techniques, enabling it to operate covertly. It uses non-traditional
communication channels to evade network detection, using Google Chat as a C2 channel, Gmail to send
alerts and Google Drive as an exfiltration channel. The framework we presented in our report is, as far as
we know, not publicly known. We have not been able to tie this framework to an existing threat actor.
Our previous report on DinodasRAT showed a wealth of overlaps in features between the Linux backdoor
version and its Windows counterpart, as well as additional Linux-specific functionalities such as
persistence through systemd or SystemV. In recent months, we were able to collect more relevant
samples, giving us a deeper insight into the Linux variant. There are indications that it has been used in
campaigns dating back to 2021. Previously identified as XDealer, an ongoing APT campaign using the
Windows version of this threat was disclosed by ESET and named “Operation Jacana”. DinodasRAT was
also used in a recent APT campaign, which included both its Windows and Linux versions, as described
by Trend Micro. In our latest report on the Linux variant of DinodasRAT, we focus on the network
communication with the C2 and the operations performed by the malware on the infected machine,
beyond establishing persistence and awaiting C2 commands.
In May 2024, we discovered a new APT targeting Russian government entities. The CloudSorcerer
malware is a sophisticated cyber-espionage tool used for stealth monitoring, data collection and
exfiltration via Microsoft, Yandex and Dropbox cloud infrastructures. The malware uses cloud resources
for its C2 servers, accessing them through APIs using authentication tokens. Additionally, CloudSorcerer
uses GitHub as its initial C2 server. CloudSorcerer’s modus operandi of is reminiscent of the
5/6
CloudWizard APT, which we reported on in 2023. However, the malware code is completely different. We
believe that CloudSorcerer is a new threat actor that has adopted a similar method of interacting with
public cloud services.
In April, we discovered a previously unknown campaign targeting organizations in Russia, including the
government sector, using the Telemos backdoor. The malware is delivered via spear-phishing emails as a
ZIP file containing one of two types of dropper – a PE64 executable with an .SCR extension or a
Windows Script File with a .WSF extension. These drop and execute a PowerShell-based script with
backdoor functionality. We found several malicious samples associated with these attacks and were able
to restore the original source code. The main purpose of this threat is espionage – collecting data from
browsers such as login credentials, cookies and browsing history, as well as collecting files of interest
from available drives on the affected system. The operation cannot be tied to a known threat actor at this
point.
Final thoughts
While some threat actors’ TTPs remain the same, such as a heavy reliance on social engineering to gain
entry to a target organization or compromising an individual’s device, others have updated their toolsets
and broadened the scope of their activities. Our regular quarterly reports are designed to highlight the
most significant developments related to APT groups.
Here are the key trends we saw in Q2 2024:
The key highlight this quarter was the backdooring of the XZ compression utility integrated into
many popular Linux distributions – in particular, the use of social engineering to gain persistent
access to the development environment.
This quarter we saw APT campaigns focused on Europe, the Americas, Asia, the Middle East and
Africa targeting a range of sectors including government, military, telecoms and judicial systems.
The purpose of most APT activities is cyber-espionage, although some campaigns are driven by
financial gain.
Hacktivist attacks have also been a feature of the threat landscape this quarter. Not all of these
attacks are focused on areas of open conflict, as illustrated by the attacks on entities in Albania by
the Homeland Justice group.
As always, we would like to point out that our reports are the product of our insight into the threat
landscape. However, it is important to remember that while we strive for continuous improvement, there is
always the possibility that there are other sophisticated attacks that may go unnoticed.
Disclaimer: when referring to APT groups as Russian-speaking, Chinese-speaking or other-language-
speaking, we refer to various artifacts used by the groups (such as malware debugging strings,
comments found in scripts, etc.) containing words in these languages, based on the information that we
obtained directly or that is otherwise publicly known and widely reported. The use of certain languages
does not necessarily indicate a specific geographic relation, but rather points to the languages that the
developers behind these APT artifacts use.
6/6
