1/11
cloud.google.com
/blog/topics/threat-intelligence/cyber-threats-2024-paris-olympics/
Phishing for Gold: Cyber Threats Facing the 2024 Paris
Olympics
Mandiant ⋮ ⋮ 6/5/2024
Written by: Michelle Cantos, Jamie Collier
Executive Summary
Mandiant assesses with high confidence that the Paris Olympics faces an elevated risk of cyber
threat activity, including cyber espionage, disruptive and destructive operations, financially-
motivated activity, hacktivism, and information operations. 
Olympics-related cyber threats could realistically impact various targets including event organizers
and sponsors, ticketing systems, Paris infrastructure, and athletes and spectators traveling to the
event. 
Mandiant assesses with high confidence that Russian threat groups pose the highest risk to the
Olympics. While China, Iran, and North Korea state sponsored actors also pose a moderate to low
risk.
To reduce the risk of cyber threats associated with the Paris Olympics, organizations should update
their threat profiles, conduct security awareness training, and consider travel-related cyber risks.
The security community is better prepared for the cyber threats facing the Paris Olympics than it
has been for previous Games, thanks to the insights gained from past events. While some entities
may face unfamiliar state-sponsored threats, many of the cybercriminal threats will be familiar.
While the technical disruption caused by hacktivism and information operations is often temporary,
these operations can have an outsized impact during high-profile events with a global audience.
Introduction
The 2024 Summer Olympics taking place in Paris, France between July and August creates opportunities
for a range of cyber threat actors to pursue profit, notoriety, and intelligence. For organizations involved in
the event, understanding relevant threats is key to developing a resilient security posture. Defenders
should prepare against a variety of threats that will likely be interested in targeting the Games for different
reasons: 
2/11
Cyber espionage groups are likely to target the 2024 Olympics for information gathering
purposes, due to the volume of government officials and senior decision makers attending.
Disruptive and destructive operations could potentially target the Games to cause negative
psychological effects and reputational damage. This type of activity could take the form of website
defacements, distributed denial of service (DDoS) attacks, the deployment of wiper malware, and
operational technology (OT) targeting. As a high profile, large-scale sporting event with a global
audience, the Olympics represents an ideal stage for such operations given that the impact of any
disruption would be significantly magnified. 
Information operations will likely leverage interest in the Olympics to spread narratives and
disinformation to target audiences. In some cases, threat actors may leverage disruptive and
destructive attacks to amplify the spread of particular narratives in hybrid operations.
Financially-motivated actors are likely to target the Olympics in various ways, including ticket
scams, theft of PII, and extortion against entities during a period of heightened pressure.
Capitalizing on interest in the games, threat actors are likely to use olympics-related lures in social
engineering operations that are not necessarily targeting the games.
3/11
Figure 1: Potential threats to the 2024 Summer Olympics
Olympics-related cyber operations could impact a variety of entities. For some organizations involved in
the Games such as sponsors, this could expose them to state-sponsored actors and destructive
campaigns that are not typically active in their sectors. Other threats, such as cybercrime and extortion
operations, will be more familiar, yet will likely become more prolific and persistent against entities
involved in the Games.
4/11
Figure 2: Potential targets of Olympic-related operations
State Sponsored Threat Activity 
State-sponsored threats pose the most significant, high severity threat to the Summer 2024 Olympics.
Mandiant assesses with high confidence that Russia poses the most severe threat to the Olympics given
its repeated targeting of previous Olympic games, its tense relationship with Europe, and recent pro-
Russia information operations having already targeted France. Other state-sponsored actors, such as
those from China, Iran, and North Korea also pose a risk, albeit to a lesser extent.
Russia 
5/11
Russian state-sponsored cyber threat activity poses the greatest risk to the Olympics. In addition to
intelligence collection activities, Russian operators have demonstrated the capability and willingness to
conduct destructive campaigns targeting past Olympics events and hybrid operations in which intrusions
support influence campaigns. Mandiant has observed Russian espionage actors conduct cyber threat
activity against previous iterations of the Olympic games, disrupting the event itself and undermining the
safety and security of organizations related to the Olympics. France may face an elevated risk of Russian
cyber threat activity given the country’s financial and military support for Ukraine after Russia’s invasion in
February 2022. 
While Russian athletes can compete in the Olympics this year, they will not represent their home country,
are unable to participate in the opening ceremony, and must compete as neutral athletes. Russia’s
perceived grievances at its athletes being once again banned from competing under the Russian flag
elevate the threat from Russian cyber attacks compared to other states.
Based on a well-documented history of targeting past Games, Mandiant assesses with high confidence
that out of the Russian threat actors we track, APT44 is most likely to target the upcoming games, and
the most likely to conduct impactful disruptive, destructive, or hybrid operations in addition to intelligence
collection.
Figure 3: Significant Russian Operations Targeting Past Olympic Games
APT44 Android Malware Campaign Targeting Users in South Korea Before 2018 Winter Games in
PyeongChang 
6/11
Beginning in late 2017, APT44 (alias FROZENBARENTS) targeted organizations involved in Olympic
activities in South Korea. The activity included credential phishing, and distribution of Windows,MacOS,
and Android malware. In the Android campaign, APT44 obtained legitimate copies of Android
applications popular in South Korea, modified them to add a custom mobile implant, and then published
the trojanized apps to the Play Store. The implant, CHEMISTGAMES, was a modular framework
designed for gathering data at scale, and included significant automation, abstraction, and specialization
for mobile devices. The modular structure of CHEMISTGAMES ensured that the attackers could hide
sensitive payloads and reserve them for specific targeted devices.
Figure 4: Prior to the Olympics, APT44 modified Android apps popular in South Korea, including a bus
timetable app and an app for checking apartment rental prices
Google’s Threat Analysis Group (TAG) discovered the Android campaign, developed signatures to
protect user devices and block the malware on Play, and banned attacker-controlled developer accounts.
Those detections protected users in other APT44 campaigns that attempted to infect users with
CHEMISTGAMES, including an attempt to target Ukrainians with a fake webmail app, and domestically-
focused campaigns targeting Russian businesses.
Mandiant suggests that UNC4057 (aka COLDRIVER) also poses a risk, despite no previously observed
targeting of the Games. The group has conducted both cyber espionage and information operations
activity in support of Russia, collecting personally identifiable information (PII) via credential harvesting
operations that may support the nation’s strategic intelligence priorities, and performing hack-and leak-
campaigns to sow discontent in the UK in 2022. This activity cluster may target French organizations
7/11
affiliated with the games and high profile individuals from NATO member countries who may be in
attendance.
China 
Mandiant Intelligence assesses with moderate confidence that People's Republic of China (PRC)
sponsored threats pose a moderate risk to the 2024 Paris Olympics. We suggest that APT31, APT15,
UNC4713, and TEMP.Hex are most likely to target organizations and individuals related to the event
given previous targeting of governments as well as civil society and non-profits in Europe. High profile
government officials and senior decision makers attending the event will likely be an attractive target for
PRC state sponsored threat actors seeking PII, credentials, or other sensitive information to support their
national interests. This creates a heightened risk of spearphishing, credential harvesting, and intelligence
collection operations. 
While PRC espionage operators have demonstrated a capability and willingness to target operational
technology systems, it is unlikely they will leverage destructive or disruptive campaigns targeting the
Summer Olympics.
Iran
Mandiant Intelligence assesses with moderate confidence that Iranian state sponsored threats, primarily
APT42, represent a moderate to low threat to the 2024 Summer Olympics. We have observed APT42
compromise civil society and non-profit organizations and government entities throughout Europe. Iranian
threat actors may leverage the Games, either using the Olympics as lure material or targeting attendees
themselves, to support campaigns against these industry verticals. Notably the ongoing conflict in Gaza
may impact the frequency and tempo of Iranian intelligence-gathering and information operations activity
in the short- to mid-term, with Iranian actors increasing their operations in Israel.
North Korea
Mandiant Intelligence assesses with moderate confidence that North Korean threat actors pose a low
threat to the 2024 Summer Olympics. APT43 might leverage information surrounding the Games as lure
material for financially motivated operations or potentially as material for social engineering campaigns to
build rapport with targets.
Information Operations & Hacktivism 
The high profile nature of the Olympics makes the event a popular target for hacktivism and information
operations that could capitalize on interest in the Games to conduct high profile operations. Although
hacktivists may have limited resources and capabilities, a well-timed disruption could achieve their goals. 
Whilst Pro-Russia information operations could be the most prominent ones using Olympics-themed
content, campaigns promoting the interests of PRC and Belarus may also use interest in the event to
promote various narratives. Hacktivist and information operations actors share many tactics, techniques
and procedures, and these groups could also create new personas specifically for their activity related to
the Olympics. 
8/11
Russia
Mandiant Intelligence assesses with high confidence that pro-Russian information operations will pose a
frequent, moderate severity threat to the Summer 2024 Olympic Games. We have observed information
operations promoting pro-Russia, anti-Ukraine, and anti-Western narratives leveraging the Olympics due
to the popularity of the Games. Additionally political retribution for France’s pro-Ukraine stance and
Russia’s ban from competing at the games under their flag may drive information operations activity
promoting Russian interests. 
In February 2024 the French Foreign Ministry accused Russia of conducting widespread
disinformation campaigns to disrupt the upcoming general election and the Olympics in retaliation
for France’s support of Ukraine after Russia’s invasion in February 2022. 
In April 2024 at the opening of an Olympic swimming venue, French President Emmanuel Macron
accused Russia of conducting an online disinformation campaign undermining the safety and
security of the upcoming games. Mandiant Intelligence has independently observed pro-Russia
activity from campaigns that we track, which appears to be consistent with these claims. 
Several pro-Russia hacktivist groups have targeted entities throughout Europe and pose a viable threat
to the Summer Olympics, including: Anonymous Sudan, Cyber Army of Russia Reborn, NoName057(16),
UserSec, and Server Killers. We judge the threat from pro-Russia hacktivists to be particularly elevated
because a number of these groups have publicized destructive attacks or data leaks from Russian state
sponsored intrusion activity. Several groups have also demonstrated the ability to disrupt high profile
targets with DDoS attacks.
Case Study: Doppelganger
Mandiant Intelligence has observed a network of inauthentic domains and social media accounts across
multiple platforms, which we attributed to the pro-Russian information operations campaign publicly
referred to as "Doppelganger". These domains have promoted political content in English, German,
French, and Italian and circulated narratives aligned with Russian strategic interests, including those
related to the Russian invasion of Ukraine. 
Mandiant has observed some narratives targeting the upcoming 2024 Paris Olympics promoted by
Doppelganger domains. This has included articles promoting narratives that generally implied that
France was not prepared as a host, as well as those that appeared intended to frame the French
Government as inadequately prepared for the security risks potentially surrounding the games—
particularly those related to Islamic extremism (Figure 3).
In March 2024 the U.S. Department of Treasury announced sanctions against two individuals and
two organizations associated with a Russian information operations campaign which posed as
European government entities and media outlets to distribute inauthentic, pro-Russian narratives to
European audiences. This activity aligns with the coordinated inauthentic networks of threat activity
used by the Doppelganger campaign.
9/11
Figure 5: Example of an Olympics-related article published by a Doppelganger affiliated domain
China
PRC information operations will likely leverage Olympic-themed narratives to promote pro-PRC and anti-
Western ideologies. Additionally, we anticipate pro-PRC information operations campaigns will likely use
the doping scandal surrounding the PRC’s swim team as part of their operations to highlight anti-PRC or
pro-Western biases. 
There is precedent for pro-PRC campaigns commenting on past Olympics. 
Rolling Stone highlighted a PRC-linked operation that masqueraded as a European news outlet
"New Europe Observation" to foment discord in European populations using controversial topics
such as immigration and the boycott of the Beijing Olympics in 2022. This operation attempted to
hire "astroturf" protesters to participate in offline demonstrations and engaged native speakers of
English, Russian, and other languages.
In late 2021 and early 2022, Mandiant Intelligence identified social media accounts that we judge to
be part of a pro-PRC information operations campaign dubbed “DRAGONBRIDGE” critiquing the
U.S. decision to boycott the 2022 Winter Olympics in Beijing. 
ProPublica highlighted how pro-PRC information operations leveraged bots to promote false
narratives surrounding Beijing’s 2022 Olympic Winter Games. 
10/11
Belarus
Mandiant identified UNC1151 and Ghostwriter activity in December 2021 promoting the narrative that
Lithuania would boycott the 2022 Beijing Winter Olympics. Lithuania remains a frequent target for
Ghostwriter operations and this likely was an opportunity to cause internal unrest leveraging a topical
event. 
Financially-Motivated Threat Activity
Mandiant Intelligence assesses with moderate confidence that financially motivated actors pose a
moderate severity threat to the 2024 Summer Olympics. The amount of financial transactions conducted
at the games will likely be an attractive target for malicious actors seeking profit with minimal effort.
Cybercrime will likely be opportunistic in nature with the main risks including:
Ransomware and extortion operations have a tendency to target organizations during high-
pressure moments, including the hosting of major events. Listings from data leak sites over the last
year indicate that France is the fifth most impacted country by ransomware and data theft extortion
activity. We observed listings for French organizations posted most frequently on sites for
LOCKBIT, 8BASE (aka PHOBOS), NOESCAPE, MEDUSA, and ALPHV. It is also possible that
cybercriminal groups that have not been historically active in France will increase their targeting
against Olympic-related entities in the runup and during the Games. 
Ticket scams often capitalize on interest in major sporting events to sell counterfeit tickets via fake
ticket websites. The popularity of the games, growing demand for tickets, and the large amount of
financial transactions occurring on third-party ticket platforms could make these systems an
attractive target for cybercriminals.
Lure material is often tied to topics of interest within the general public, and we anticipate that
threat actors will likely use the upcoming Olympics as lure material for the initial compromise
stages of their campaigns. Lures can convince unsuspecting users to engage with malicious
material resulting in the distribution of malware. 
Risk Mitigation Techniques 
Organizations should strongly consider taking proactive measures to reduce the risk of cyber threats
associated with the Paris Olympics.
Organizations involved in the Games should update their threat profile to account for potentially
new threats to which they will be exposed. Intelligence on relevant threat actors can be used to
inform detection efforts, insert proactive security controls, conduct threat hunting within a network,
and inform cyber risk assessments linked to the Games. It may be helpful to review the following
guides for countering DDoS and destructive attacks: 
Organizations that face an elevated threat from ransomware and extortion operations are
encouraged to read Mandiant Intelligence’s Ransomware Protection and Containment Strategies
guide. This provides practical guidance for hardening and protecting infrastructure, identities, and
endpoints. 
Security awareness training should highlight the risks of Olympics-related social engineering lures
in the runup to and during the Games. 
11/11
Organizations and individuals traveling to the Games should consider travel-related cyber risks,
such as the elevated risk of public Wi-Fi tampering, scams involving Olympics-related events, and
the targeting of VIPs (i.e. government officials, senior decision makers, and business executives).
Organizations that face an elevated threat of information operations in relation to the Olympics
should consider potential brand damage risks and comms mitigation strategies. It may be helpful to
review Mandiant’s blog post, How to Understand and Action Mandiant's Intelligence on Information
Operations.
Figure 6: Mitigations for travel and close access threats
Outlook
Despite the variety of Olympics-related cyber threats, the security community is better prepared when
compared to previous iterations of the Games. Having observed actors such as APT44 target previous
Olympics, we have better insights into the ways the Games could be targeted. This gives defenders an
opportunity to build a proactive and tailored security posture.
Posted in
Threat Intelligence
