 
 
 
BfV CYBER INSIGHT 
The i-Soon-Leaks: Industrialization of Cyber Espionage 
Cologne, 08 August 2024 
Part 2: Connections of i-Soon to the  
 
 
Chinese security apparatus 
BfV CYBER INSIGHT 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bundesamt für Verfassungsschutz | CYBER INSIGHT  
The i-Soon-Leaks, part 2: Connections of i-Soon to the Chinese security apparatus 
1 
The i-Soon-Leaks: Industrialization of Cyber Espionage 
 
Part 2: Connections of i-Soon to the Chinese security apparatus 
 
 
Table of Contents 
1. 
Introduction .......................................................................................................... 2 
2. 
i-Soon’s involvement in national vulnerability mining ........................................... 3 
3. 
i-Soon’s training institute and certifications .......................................................... 6 
4. 
Personnel links to the Chinese state and the national hacking scene ................. 7 
5. 
“Limitless” supply in a competitive market ........................................................... 8 
 
 
 
BfV CYBER INSIGHT 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bundesamt für Verfassungsschutz | CYBER INSIGHT  
The i-Soon-Leaks, part 2: Connections of i-Soon to the Chinese security apparatus 
2 
1. Introduction 
On February 16th 2024 a data set was leaked on the GitHub1 developer platform that 
provides a rare insight into China's methods of conducting hacking operations world-
wide. The internal documents show the extent of cooperation between the Chinese 
cybersecurity company i-Soon and the Chinese government and intelligence services. 
In four consecutive reports BfV examines the leak in detail and describes the level of 
industrialization of cyber espionage activities by privately organized companies, who 
carry out cyber-attacks for state entities. 
The leak includes over 570 files, images, and chat messages in Chinese, including: 
• a presentation on the skills and services of i-Soon,  
• lists of employees, product information/services, contract books and information 
on cyber operations and target entities,  
• screenshots of presumably captured data and 
• log files of compromised telecommunications service providers in Asia. 
The leaked documents do not contain any indication of affected entities in Germany, 
however, the analysis offers an insight into the inner workings of private hacker com-
panies and providers of malicious software and their close ties to the Chinese state. It 
also lays bare how APT2 groups operate and how government agencies leverage 
them.3 
The BfV’s evaluation of the leaked data is presented in a total of four reports, which 
are structured as follows: 
• Organization and methods of i-Soon APT units (part 1), 
• Connections of i-Soon to the Chinese security apparatus (part 2, this re-
port), 
• Affected countries and specific targets of i-Soon (part 3), 
                                            
1 
GitHub is an online software development and version management service for software projects. 
2 
Advanced Persistent Threats (APT) denotes complex and targeted threats that target one or a specific group 
of victims. They are usually comprised of resource-intensive, government-controlled cyber-attacker groups. 
The attacks themselves are often elaborately prepared by the attackers, are sophisticated ("advanced") and 
can continue over a long period of time (“persistent”). 
3 
For illustration purposes, various screenshots from the leak were translated and included in this report. 
BfV CYBER INSIGHT 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bundesamt für Verfassungsschutz | CYBER INSIGHT  
The i-Soon-Leaks, part 2: Connections of i-Soon to the Chinese security apparatus 
3 
• Offered products and i-Soon customers (part 4). 
Following part 1 (organization and methods of i-Soon APT groups), part 2 is dedicated 
to the connections of i-Soon to the Chinese security apparatus. 
 
2. i-Soon’s involvement in national vulnerability mining 
The leaked files contain a company presentation on the capabilities and services of 
i-Soon and shows its ties to the Chinese state apparatus. For example, the company 
advertises its participation in national vulnerability mining4 and in this context also con-
tributes to the "China National Vulnerability Database" (CNNVD). 
Figure 1: vulnerability mining5 
In July 2021 the Chinese government introduced binding regulations and structures to 
institutionalize vulnerability mining. This ensures a wide-ranging collection of infor-
mation by government agencies. All companies operating in China are legally obliged 
to report identified vulnerabilities within 48 hours via specified reporting channels. The 
                                            
4  
Vulnerability mining refers to the (targeted) collection and availability of vulnerabilities in software and similar 
products. 
5  
Representation from Atlantic Council (2023): Sleight of hand: How China weaponizes software vulnerabilities 
(Source: CNNVD Handbook) 
BfV CYBER INSIGHT 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bundesamt für Verfassungsschutz | CYBER INSIGHT  
The i-Soon-Leaks, part 2: Connections of i-Soon to the Chinese security apparatus 
4 
information is merged into various databases, to which all relevant agencies of the 
Chinese security apparatus have access (see Figure 1). It is strictly prohibited to oth-
erwise disclose the security vulnerability. 
The CNNVD database is operated by the China National Information Technology Se-
curity Evaluation Center (CNITSEC)6 and the information is made available to (offen-
sive) cyber actors. 
Companies such as i-Soon need to apply to become a technical supporter of CNNVD. 
After qualifying, candidates are then assigned to one of three levels – depending on 
size and skills (see Figure 2). 
Figure 2: application criteria for companies wanting to join CNNVD7 
                                            
6 
The China Information Technical Security Evaluation Center (CNITSEC) was founded in 1997 and is according 
to its own statements an integral part of China's information security system. In particular, these are the anal-
ysis of software monitoring units and the evaluation, assessment and certification of software code, products 
related to IT security and actors in the Chinese cyber space. 
7 
Representation from Atlantic Council (2023): Sleight of hand: How China weaponizes software vulnerabilities 
(Source: CNNVD Handbook) 
BfV CYBER INSIGHT 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bundesamt für Verfassungsschutz | CYBER INSIGHT  
The i-Soon-Leaks, part 2: Connections of i-Soon to the Chinese security apparatus 
5 
The partnership levels differ based on the number and quality of vulnerabilities submit-
ted. Level 1 denotes the premium level.  
If an enterprise was successful in its application in accordance with the above criteria, 
annual follow-up criteria must be met (see Figure 3).  
Figure 3: annual requirements for CNNVD support units8 
According to the company presentation in the leak, i-Soon is noted as a level 3 partner 
and must therefore supply at least five new “ordinary” (i.e. non-critical) vulnerabilities 
each year as well as fulfill all other overarching requirements. These include requests 
from CNNVD to participating corporations such as i-Soon that the company's technical 
support units must realize. Requests cover the full range of vulnerabilities evaluation 
                                            
8 
Representation from Atlantic Council (2023): Sleight of hand: How China weaponizes software vulnerabilities 
(Source: CNNVD Handbook) 
BfV CYBER INSIGHT 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bundesamt für Verfassungsschutz | CYBER INSIGHT  
The i-Soon-Leaks, part 2: Connections of i-Soon to the Chinese security apparatus 
6 
and assessment, technical seminars and data analysis, and specific event-based sup-
port in the context of vulnerability exploitation.9 
 
3. i-Soon’s training institute and certifications 
i-Soon provides services for cyber operations and also trains people itself for their im-
plementation at the so-called Anxun College. The leaked materials show that more 
than 3.000 students are trained at Anxun College each year. Participants include stu-
dents from other institutions, members of other companies, state institutions or public 
security institutions. The college was established in line with the state’s requirement to 
improve cybersecurity capabilities. The teaching program includes offline material for 
self-study, remote teaching, personalized lessons and participation in organized com-
petitions. These competitions are an important source of young talent for i-Soon but 
the data also shows that other competitions are scouted to acquire new employees.  
Additionally, the company presentation shows that i-Soon also promotes numerous 
certifications (see Figure 4). 
Figure 4: certifications specified by i-Soon 
• Level-2 certificate for classified information for weapons and equipment (mean-
ing digital services/products) and research and development units, 
• Level-1 qualification for National Information Security Services, 
• National qualification for information security services with the ability to handle 
information security emergencies at level 3, 
                                            
9 
see Atlantic Council (2023): Sleight of hand: How China weaponizes software vulnerabilities. 
BfV CYBER INSIGHT 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bundesamt für Verfassungsschutz | CYBER INSIGHT  
The i-Soon-Leaks, part 2: Connections of i-Soon to the Chinese security apparatus 
7 
• Level-3 certification for National Information Security Services by CNITSEC, 
• Technical partnership with CNNVD Level-3 (see chapter 2), 
• Registration as a professional training center for information security for attack 
and defense. 
These certifications allow the execution of classified assignments or cooperation for-
mats such as the provision of certain software products or the execution of special 
hacking operations and thus form the (certified) basis for a cooperation with govern-
ment agencies. 
 
4. Personnel links to the Chinese state and the national hacking 
scene  
A leaked list of “employees for confidential content” also indicates links between i-Soon 
and the Chinese state apparatus (see Figure 5). In addition to the names of employees, 
it also provides an insight into the structure of the individual workspaces of the com-
pany. Confidential information is therefore dealt with in the following divisions: 
• information management, 
• sales and pre-sales, 
• technical services, 
• safety evaluation, 
• administration, 
• confidentiality office, 
• finance, 
• security division, 
• human resources, 
• software development and 
• operation and maintenance. 
 
 
BfV CYBER INSIGHT 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bundesamt für Verfassungsschutz | CYBER INSIGHT  
The i-Soon-Leaks, part 2: Connections of i-Soon to the Chinese security apparatus 
8 
Figure 5: list of “confidential personnel”10 
The list also indicates that contacts or families “overseas” must be reported and re-
tained by the company. For the staff listed, this column is uniformly blank, which could 
indicate that contacts or families overseas are an exclusion criterion for employees 
working in the confidential area of the company. The list also includes information if a 
person is a member of the Chinese Communist Party (CCP) and which classification 
level they have within the company. 
In addition, the analysis of the text files contained in the data leak provides extensive 
information on connections between competing cybersecurity companies. For in-
stance, next to the alias "shutd0wn" of the i-Soon founder, other names appear in chat 
logs that show overlaps with otherwise well-known APT groups or former members of 
the patriotic hacking scene. Many of these former members have set up similar cyber-
security companies that provide services to Chinese services. 
 
5. “Limitless” supply in a competitive market 
The i-Soon data leak provides important insights into the complex structure and reach 
of China's cyber ecosystem. Information gained from the i-Soon-leaks is likely to be 
                                            
10 
Illustration shortened; in addition, names were blacked out. 
BfV CYBER INSIGHT 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bundesamt für Verfassungsschutz | CYBER INSIGHT  
The i-Soon-Leaks, part 2: Connections of i-Soon to the Chinese security apparatus 
9 
transferable to other companies operating within a thriving industry. The analysis re-
veals how professional and complex the system works but also shows an industry built 
on competition. i-Soon advertises its capabilities on the company’s homepage with the 
slogan “security is limitless”. The successful application of i-Soon for participating in 
the CNNVD and the pursuit of other certifications/quality seals demonstrate a strong 
commitment in gaining a strategic advantage over competing companies.  
Government agencies in China benefit from an industry that has developed its own 
dynamics and operates in accordance to market economy principles. State entities can 
pick and choose from a range of competing companies offering diverse services and 
technical expertise in a growing economic sector. 
Customers or clients of cyber products and services, such as those offered by i-Soon, 
no longer have to recruit specialized personnel independently or invest large amounts 
in product development. Also, they do not have to consider operational security as-
pects themselves. This outsourcing in cyberspace leads to an increased professional-
ization of state controlled cyber campaigns and in particular makes it more difficult for 
cyber defense agencies to trace specific actors. The attribution of individual cyber op-
erations within this highly complex system is increasingly challenging.  
After exposing the organization and methods of i-Soon APT units (part 1) and showing 
i-Soon’s links to the Chinese security apparatus (part 2), the further course of reporting 
on the i-Soon-leaks will focus on known targets and attack vectors of i-Soon’s APT-
like units (part 3) and report on clients and products of i-Soon (part 4).  
 
 
BfV CYBER INSIGHT 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bundesamt für Verfassungsschutz | CYBER INSIGHT  
The i-Soon-Leaks, part 2: Connections of i-Soon to the Chinese security apparatus 
10 
 
 
 
 
Publication information 
 
Published by 
Bundesamt für Verfassungsschutz 
Abteilung 4 
Merianstraße 100 
50765 Köln 
poststelle@bfv.bund.de  
www.verfassungsschutz.de 
Tel.: +49 (0) 228/99 792-0 
Fax: +49 (0) 228/99 792-2600 
Image credits 
cover: BfV, ai-generated 
Date of Information 
July 2024 
