TLP:CLEA R 
   
  
 
TLP: CLEAR 
Enhanced Visibility and Hardening 
Guidance for Communications 
Infrastructure  
 
Publication: December 3, 2024  
U.S. Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security 
Agency  
U.S. National Security Agency  
U.S. Fede ral Bureau of Investigation  Australian Signals Directorate’s Australian Cyber Security Centre  
Canad ian Cyber Security Centre  
New Zealand’s National Cyber Security Centre  
This document is marked TLP:CLEAR. Disclosure is not limited. Sources may use TLP:CLEAR when information 
carries minimal or no foreseeable risk of misuse, in accordance with applicable rules and procedures for 
public release. Subject to standard copyright rules, TLP:CLEAR information may be distributed without 
restriction. For more information on the Traffic Light Protocol, see cisa.gov/tlp.  
TLP: CLEAR  
CISA | FBI | NSA  | ASD’s ACSC  | CCCS | NCSC -NZ 
TLP: CLEAR  
2 Introduction  
The Cybersecurity and Infrastr ucture Security Agency (CISA) , National Security Agency (NSA) , Federal 
Bureau of Investigation (FBI) , Australian Signals Directorate’s (ASD’s) Australian Cyber Security 
Centre (ACSC), Canadian  Cyber Security Centre  (CCCS), and New Zealand’s National Cyber Security 
Centre ( NCSC -NZ) warn that  People’s Republic of China (PRC) -affiliated threat  actor s compromis ed 
networks of major global telecommunications providers  to conduct a broad and significant cyber 
espionage campaign . The authoring agencies are releasing this guide to highlight this threat and 
provide network engineers  and defenders  of communications infrastructure with best practices to 
strengthen their visibility and harden  their  network  devices  against successful exploitation carried 
out by PRC -affiliated  and other malicious cyber actors . Although tailored to network defender s and 
engineers of communications infrastructure, this guid e may also apply to organizations with on -
premises  enterprise equipment . The authoring agencies  encourage telecommunications  and other 
critical infrastructure organizations to apply the  best practices in th is guide.  
As of th is release date, identified exploitations or compromises associated with these threat actor s’ 
activity align with existing weaknesses asso ciated with victim infrastructure; no novel  activity has 
been observed . Patching vulnerable devices and services, as well as generally securing 
environments, will reduce opportunities for intrusion and mitigate the actor s’ activity . 
Strengthening Visibility  
In the context of this guide, visibility refers to organizations ’ abilit ies to monitor, detect, and 
understand activity within their networks.  High visibility means having detailed insight into network 
traffic, user activity, and data flow, allow ing network defenders to quickly identify threats, anomalous 
behavior,  and vulnerabilities . Visibility is critical for network  engineers and defenders, particularly 
when identifying and responding to incidents.  
Monitori ng 
Network Engineers  
 Closely scrutinize and investigate a ny configuration modifications or alterat ions to network 
devices  such as switches, routers, and firewalls outside of the change management process . 
Implement comprehensive alerting mechanisms to detect unauthorized changes to the 
network , including  unusual route updates, enabled weak protocols, and configuration 
changes  (i.e., changes  to users and Access Control Lists [ACLs ]). 
o Store configurations centrally and push to devices. Do not allow devices to be the trusted 
source of truth for their configuration . Monitor configuration  and, if feasible, test and 
override on a frequent basis.  
 Implement a strong  network flow monitoring solution . This solution should allow for network 
flow data exporters  and the associated collectors to be strategically centered around  key 
ingress and egress locations  that provide visibility into inter -customer traffic . 
TLP: CLEAR  
CISA | FBI | NSA  | ASD’s ACSC  | CCCS | NCSC -NZ 
TLP: CLEAR  
3  If feasible , limit exposure of management traffic to  the Internet . Only allow management via 
a limited and enforced network path , ideally only directly from dedicated administrative 
workstations.  
 Monitor user and service account logins for anomalies that could indicate potential malicious 
activity. Validate all accounts and disable inactive accounts  to redu ce the attack surface. 
Monitor logins occurring internally and externally from the management environment.  
 Implement secure, centralized logging  with the ability to analyze and correlate large amounts 
of data from different sources . Encrypt any logging traffic destined for a remote destination 
via IPsec , TLS, or any other available encrypted transport options . Additionally, store copies 
of logs of f-site to ensure they cannot be modified or deleted. Enable logging and auditing on 
devices and ensure logs can be offloaded from the device.  
o If possible , implement a Security Information and Event Management (SIEM) tool to 
analyze and correlate logs and a lerts from the routers for rapid identification of security 
incidents.  
o Ensure logging takes place at all levels of the environment, network operating system, 
application, and software levels, as it pertains to network devices.  
o Establish a baseline of normal network behavior and define rules on security appliances  
to alert on abnormal behavior . 
 Ensure the inventory of devices and firmware in the environment are up to date to enable effective visibility and monitoring.  
Network Defenders  
 Implement a  monitoring  and network management capability that, at a minimum, enforces 
configuration management, automates routine administrative functions, and alerts on changes detected within the environment , such as connections an d user and account 
activity . 
o Establish unders tanding of the architecture of infrastructure and production enclaves, a s 
well as  where the two environments meet  or are segregated . Map and understand 
boundary and ingress/egress points of the network management enclave.  
o Understand which assets should be  forward facing  and remove those that should not be 
forward facing. Closely m onitor all devices  that accept  external connections from outside  
the corporate network and investigate any configurations that do not comply with known 
good configurations, such as open ports , services , or unexpected Generic Routing 
Encapsulation ( GRE) or IPsec tunnel usage . Threat  actors have been observed taking 
adva ntage of external -facing vulnerable services and features; therefore, proper visibility 
of network and security operations is vital.  
o If appropriate , implement a packet capture capability as part of the broader visibility 
effort for the enterprise.  Determine capture location(s) and retention policies based on 
organizational demands.  
TLP: CLEAR  
CISA | FBI | NSA  | ASD’s ACSC  | CCCS | NCSC -NZ 
TLP: CLEAR  
4 Hardening  Systems and Devices  
Hardening device and network architecture is a defense -in-depth strategy. Reducing vulnerabilities, 
improving secure configuration habits, and following best practices limit potential entry points for 
PRC-affiliated  and other  cyber threats.  
Protocols and Management Processes  
Network Engineers  
 Use an out -of-band management network that is  physically separate from the operational 
data flow network. En sure that management of network infrastructure devices can only come 
from the out -of-band management network. In addition, confirm  that the out -of-band 
management network does not allow lateral management connections between devices to prevent lateral movement in the case that one device becomes compromised . Ensure device 
management is physically isolated from the customer and production networks . When 
properly implemented, out -of-band management can mitigate many threat actor tactics, 
techniques, and procedures (T TPs).
 
 Implement a strict, default -deny ACL strategy to control inbound and egressing traffic. Ensure 
all denied traffic is logged.  For maximum depth, implement on separate devices from  those 
implementing other security controls.  
 Employ strong network segmentation via the use of router ACLs, stateful packet inspection, 
firewall c apabilities , and demilitarized zone (DMZ) constructs . Separation via virtual local 
area networks ( VLANs ) and, if possible , private VLAN s (PVLAN) will provide additional 
granular logical separation. This should be done as part of a broader defense -in-depth 
approach that  protects and isolates different device groups.  
o Place e xternally facing services, such as D omain Name S ystem (DNS) , web ser vers, and 
mail servers , in a DMZ  to provide segmentation from the internal LAN and backend 
resources.  
o Additionally, as a general strategy, put devices with similar purpose s in the same VLAN. 
For example, place all user workstations from a certain team in one VLAN, while  putting  
another team with different functions  in a separate VLAN.  
o Do not m anage devices from the internet . Only allow  device management from trusted 
devices on trusted networks. Use dedicated administrative workstations (DAWs) 
connected to dedicated management zones.  
 Harden and secure virtual private network ( VPN) gateways by limiting external exposure, if 
possible, and limiting the port exposure to what is minimally required  (for example  udp/500, 
udp/4500 and protocol type 50 (ESP) ). Ensure  all VPNs are configured to only use strong 
cryptography for key exchange, authentication, and encryption.[ 1] 
o Disable unused VPN features and cryptographic algorithms to prevent exploitable 
weaknesses.  
 Ensure that traffic is end -to-end encrypted to the maximum extent possible.  
TLP: CLEAR  
CISA | FBI | NSA  | ASD’s ACSC  | CCCS | NCSC -NZ 
TLP: CLEAR  
5  As a management pol icy, c ontrol access to device Virtual Teletype ( VTY) lines with an ACL  to 
restrict inbound lateral movement connections . 
o Additionally , disable outbound connections to mitigate against lateral movement.  Monitor 
for changes as adversaries can modify this con figuration on compromised devices to 
allow outbound connections.  
 Ensure all authentication , authorization , and  accounting  (AAA) logging i s securely sent to a 
centralized logging server  with modern confidentiality, integrity, and authentication ( CIA) 
protections . 
 If using Simple Network Management Protocol ( SNMP ), ensure only SNMP v3 with encryption 
and authentication is u sed, along  with ACL protections against unnecessary public exposure. 
Ensure configuration with the most secure cryptographic options  supported  by the hardware . 
 Disable all unnecessary discovery protocols , such as  Cisco  Discovery P rotocol (CDP)  or Link 
Layer Discovery Protocol  (LLDP) . If they are required , only enable on the necessary  
interfaces.  
 Ensure T ransport L ayer S ecurity (TLS)  v1.3 is used on any TLS -capable protocols  to secure 
data in transit over a network .[2] Ensure TLS is configured to only use strong cryptographic 
cipher suites. [3] 
o Use Public Key Infrastructure (PKI) -based certificates instead of self-signed certificates.  
o Implement a robust process to renew certificates before they expire.  
 Disable Internet P rotocol (IP)  source routing . 
 Disable Secure Shell ( SSH) version 1. Ensure only SSH version 2 .0 is used with the following 
cryptographic considerations .[2] For more information on acceptable algorithms, see  NSA’s 
Network Infrastructure Security Guide . 
o Configure with minimally a 3072 -bit RSA key . 
o Configure with minimally a 4096 Diffie -Hellman key size (group 16) . 
 When possible, a pply secure  authentication  to protocols  and services  which allow it , such as  
Network Time P rotocol ( NTP), Terminal Access Controller Access -Control System ( TACACS+ ), 
Open S hortest P ath First (OSPF ), Borde r Gateway Protocol ( BGP), and Hot Standby Router 
Protocol ( HSRP ). Similarly, disable any unauthenticated management protocols  or functions , 
such as Cisco Smart Install.  
 Use secure cryptographic building blocks when building VPNs  such as  [3]: 
o Key Exchange:  
 Diffie -Hellman Group 15 with 3072-bit Modular Exponential  (MODP)  
 Diffie -Hellman Group 16 with 4096-bit Modular Exp onential  (MODP)  
 Diffie -Hellman Group 20 with 384-bit Elliptic Curve Group (ECP)  
o Encryption: AES -256  
o Hashing: SHA -384 or SHA -512 
 Ensure that no default  passwords are used.  
o Change all default passwords  on first use.  
TLP: CLEAR  
CISA | FBI | NSA  | ASD’s ACSC  | CCCS | NCSC -NZ 
TLP: CLEAR  
6 o Ensure no passwords are  reset back to the default.  
 Confirm the integrity of the software image in use by using  a trusted hashing calculation 
utility , if available . 
o If a utility is unavailable, c alculate a hash of the software image on a trusted 
administration works tation  and compare against the vendor’s published hashes on an 
authenticated site as a trusted source of truth . This may require  engaging the device’s  
maintenance  contract to access source of truth hash values.  For additional security, copy 
the image to a forensic workstation and calculate the hash value to compare against the 
vendor’s published hashes . 
Network Defenders  
 Disable any unnecessary, unused , exploitable , or plaintext services and protocols, such as 
Telnet, File Transfer Protocol ( FTP), Trivial FTP ( TFTP ), SSH v1, Hypertext Transfer Protocol 
(HTTP ) servers, and SNMP v1/v2c.  Ensure any requir ed internet -exposed services are 
adequately protected by ACLs and are fully patched.  
 Conduct port -scanning and scanning of known internet -facing infra structure to ensure no 
additional services are accessible across the network or from the internet.  Remove 
unnecessary internet -facing infrastructure , monitor necessary  internet -facing  infrastructure , 
and c ontinuously validate the architecture . 
o Routers with  an active shell environment —even if they have not been tampered with —
have significantly more listeners  running at the operating system ( OS) level  compared to 
the software level.  
Network defenders and network engineers should ensure close collaboration and  open 
communication to accomplish the following:  
 Ensure all networking configurations are stored, tracked, and regularly  audited  for 
compliance with security policies and best practices . 
o Whenever networking configurations are transmitted for storage, tracking, and 
troubleshooting, confirm that they are sent using encrypted protocols. Additionally, be 
sure they are not attached to plaintext emails or sent via FTP or TFTP.  
 Monitor for vendor  end-of-life (EOL)  announcements for hardware device s, operating system 
versions, and software , and upgrade as soon as possible . 
 Implement a change management system that anticipates both routine and emergency 
patching.  Continuously monitor for vendor vuln erability and patch announcements and 
ensure patches are applied in a timely manner. Ensur e use of vendor recommended version 
of the operating system for the features and capabilities required.  
o Test and validate patches as part of the change and patch mana gement processes.  
 As part of a broader password policy, store passwords with secure hashing algorithms. 
Passwords should meet complexity requirements  and should be stored using one -way 
hashing algorithms or, if available, unique keys. Follow National Institute of Standards and 
Technologies  guidelines  when creating password policies.  
TLP: CLEAR  
CISA | FBI | NSA  | ASD’s ACSC  | CCCS | NCSC -NZ 
TLP: CLEAR  
7  Require phishing -resistant multi -factor authentication (MFA)  for all accounts that access 
company systems, networks, and applications, including sensitive admin istrative  access to 
routers. MFA should use a combination of credentials and a phishing -resistant secondary 
verification method, such as hardware -based PKI or FIDO authentication, to ensure secure 
access and prevent unauthorized entry.  
 As part of a broader identity and access management policy, use local accounts only for 
emergencies and change the  passwords  after each use. Verify that each use was authorized 
and expected. For everyday management of network infrastructure, use a centralized AAA 
server that supports multi -factor authentication requirements ; however,  ensure the AAA 
server is not linked to the primary corporate identity store.  
 Limit session token durations and require users to re authenticate  when the session expires . 
Conduct audit s to determine the standard session duration for each role to  implement 
session expirations.  
 Implement a Role-Based Access Control (RBAC) strategy that assigns users to a specific role 
with defined and inherited permissions  to better control and manage what  users can  do. 
 Remove any unnecessary accounts and periodically review accounts to verify that they 
continue to be needed . Apply the  principle of least privilege to make sure accounts only have 
the minimum permissions  necessary to  complete their  tasks . Additionally, continuously 
monitor accounts in use.  
Cisco -Specific Guidance  
Organizations in the communications sector should be aware that the authoring agencies have 
observed Cisco -specific features often being targeted by, and associated with, these  PRC cyber 
threat actor s’ activity. To address the risk of exploitation by these  specific threat actor s, the 
authoring agencies urge organizations to apply the following hardening best practices to all Cisco 
operating systems . For additional information, see Ci sco’s IOS XE Hardening Guide  and Guide to 
Securing NX-OS Software Devices . 
 Disable Cisco’s Smart Install service using no vstack . 
 If not r equired, disable the guest shell  access using guestshell disable  for those 
versions which support the guestshell service . 
 Disable  all non -encrypted web management capabilities. If web  management is required, 
configure servers in compliance with vendor  recommended security settings and software 
images.  
o Always disable the underlying non -encrypted web server using no ip http server . If 
web management is not required, disable all of the underlying  web servers  using no ip 
http server  and no ip http secure-server . 
 Disable telnet  and ensure it is not available on any of the VTY lines  by c onfigur ing all VTY 
stanzas with transport input ssh  and transport output  none . 
 To securely store passwords on Cisco devices , organizations should:  
o Use Type -8 passwords when p ossible.  
TLP: CLEAR  
CISA | FBI | NSA  | ASD’s ACSC  | CCCS | NCSC -NZ 
TLP: CLEAR  
8 o Avoid use of  deprecated hashing or password types when storing passwords , such as  
Type -5 or Type -7. 
o If supported, secure the TACACS+ key as a Type -6 encrypted password.  
Incident Reporting  
 U.S. organizations: If suspicious activity is identified , contact your local FBI field office  or the 
FBI’s Internet Crime Complaint Center (IC3) . Cyber incidents can also be reported to CISA by 
calling 1 -844-Say -CISA (1 -844-729 -2472), emailing report@cisa.dhs.gov , or reporting online 
at cisa.gov/report . For NSA client requirements or general cybersecurity inquiries, contact 
Cybersecurity_Requests@nsa.gov . 
 Australian organizations: Visit cyber.gov.au or call 1300 292 371 (1300 CYBER 1) to report 
cybersecurity incidents and access alerts and advisories.  
 Canadian organizations: Report incidents by emailing CCCS at contact@cyber.gc.ca . 
 New Zealand organizations: Report cyber security incidents to incidents@ncsc.govt.nz  or call 
04 498 7654.  
Secure by Design  
The authoring agencies urge software manufacturers to incorporate secure by design principles into 
their software developm ent lifecycle to strengthen the security posture of their customers. Software 
manufacturers should prioritize secure by design configurations to eliminate the need for customer 
implementation of hardening guidelines. Additionally, customers should demand t hat the software 
they purchase  is secure by design.  For more information  on secure by design, see CISA’s Secure by 
Design  webpage . Customers should refer to CISA’s Secure by Demand  guidance for additional 
product security considerations.  
Resources  
 CISA: Cross -Sector Cybersecurity Performance Goals  
 Joint Guide : Best Practices for Event Logging and Threat Detection  
 NSA: Network Infrastructure Security Guide  
 NSA, CISA, a nd FBI: People’s Republic of China State -Sponsored Cyber Actors Exploit Network 
Providers and Devices  
 NSA: Hardening Network Devices  
 NSA: Performing Out -of-Band Network Management  
 NSA: Cisco Password Types : Best Practices  
 NSA: Cisco Smart Install Protocol Misuse  
 CCCS: Cryptographic A lgorithms for UNCLASSIFIED, PROTECED A, and PROTECTED B 
Information –  ITSP.40.111  
TLP: CLEAR  
CISA | FBI | NSA  | ASD’s ACSC  | CCCS | NCSC -NZ 
TLP: CLEAR  
9  NIST : Special Publication 800 -52: Guidelines for the Selection, Configura tion, and Use of 
Transport Layer Security (TLS) Implementations  
 NIST: Special Publication 800 -77: Guide to IPsec VPNs  
References  
[1] CCCS: Guidance on Securely Configuri ng Network Protocols  
[2] NSA: Network Infrastruct ure Security Guide  
[3] CNSS: Committee on National Security Systems Policy (CNSSP) -15 
Disclaimer  
The authoring agencies do not  endorse any commercial entity, product, company, or service, 
including any entities, products, or services linked within this document. Any reference to specific 
commercial entities, products, processes, or services by service mark, trademark, manufacture r, or 
otherwise, does not constitute or imply endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the authoring agencies.  Additionally, the information in this document is provided “as -is” and without warrant ies or 
representation s of any kind. The users of this in formation shall have no recourse against the 
authoring parties for any loss, liability, damage or cost that may be suffered or incurred at any time 
arising f rom the use of information in this document, including but not limited to loss of data or 
interrupt ion of business.  
Acknowledgements  
Cisco and Google Cloud Security  contributed to this guidance.  
Version History  
December 3, 2024:  Initial version.  
