 
 
 
BfV CYBER INSIGHT 
The i-Soon-Leaks: Industrialization of Cyber Espionage 
Cologne, 15 August 2024 
2024 
Part 3: Affected countries and specific  
 
 
targets of i-Soon 
BfV CYBER INSIGHT 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bundesamt für Verfassungsschutz | CYBER INSIGHT  
The i-Soon-Leaks, part 3: Affected countries and specific targets of i-Soon 
1 
The i-Soon-Leaks: Industrialization of Cyber Espionage 
 
Part 3: Affected countries and specific targets of i-Soon 
 
 
Table of Contents 
1. 
Introduction .......................................................................................................... 2 
2. 
Target regions and countries ............................................................................... 3 
3. 
Specific targets .................................................................................................... 4 
4. 
Targeting in line with China’s geopolitical interests ............................................10 
 
 
 
BfV CYBER INSIGHT 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bundesamt für Verfassungsschutz | CYBER INSIGHT  
The i-Soon-Leaks, part 3: Affected countries and specific targets of i-Soon 
2 
1. Introduction 
On February 16th 2024 a data set was leaked on the GitHub1 developer platform 
that provides a rare insight into China's methods of conducting hacking operations 
worldwide. The internal documents show the extent of cooperation between the 
Chinese cybersecurity company i-Soon and the Chinese government and intelli-
gence services. In four consecutive reports BfV examines the leak in detail and 
describes the level of industrialization of cyber espionage activities by privately 
organized companies, who carry out cyber-attacks for state entities. 
The leak includes over 570 files, images, and chat messages in Chinese, including: 
• a presentation on the skills and services of i-Soon,  
• lists of employees, product information/services, contract books and infor-
mation on cyber operations and target entities,  
• screenshots of presumably captured data and 
• log files of compromised telecommunications service providers in Asia. 
The leaked documents do not contain any indication of affected entities in Ger-
many, however, the analysis offers an insight into the inner workings of private 
hacker companies and providers of malicious software and their close ties to the 
Chinese state. It also lays bare how APT2 groups operate and how government 
agencies leverage them.3 
 
 
                                            
1 
GitHub is an online software development and version management service for software projects. 
2 
Advanced Persistent Threats (APT) denotes complex and targeted threats that target one or a specific group 
of victims. They are usually comprised of resource-intensive, government-controlled cyber-attacker groups. 
The attacks themselves are often elaborately prepared by the attackers, are sophisticated ("advanced") and 
can continue over a long period of time (“persistent”). 
3 
For illustration purposes, various screenshots from the leak were translated and included in this report. 
BfV CYBER INSIGHT 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bundesamt für Verfassungsschutz | CYBER INSIGHT  
The i-Soon-Leaks, part 3: Affected countries and specific targets of i-Soon 
3 
The BfV’s evaluation of the leaked data is presented in a total of four reports, which 
are structured as follows: 
• Organization and methods of i-Soon APT units (part 1), 
• Connections of i-Soon to the Chinese security apparatus (part 2), 
• Affected countries and specific targets of i-Soon (part 3, this report), 
• Offered products and i-Soon customers (part 4). 
Following part 1 (organization and methods of i-Soon APT groups and part 2 (con-
nections of i-Soon to the Chinese security apparatus), part 3 is dedicated to the 
affected countries and specific targets of i-Soon. 
 
2. Target regions and countries 
The leaked data also contains a presentation on i-Soon’s skills and offered ser-
vices. By the company’s own accord, its cyber operations focus on West Asia, 
Southeast Asia as well as Hong Kong, Taiwan, India, Nepal and Tibet. The cyber 
operations listed in the data leak confirm this concentration of activities. However, 
the leaked data also contains references to activities against EU institutions and 
member states. The entries show the state of running operations and give insight 
into the management of APT activities (see Figure 1). 
Figure 1: excerpt list of cyber operations 
BfV CYBER INSIGHT 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bundesamt für Verfassungsschutz | CYBER INSIGHT  
The i-Soon-Leaks, part 3: Affected countries and specific targets of i-Soon 
4 
The listed targets show a focus of cyber operations against entities in Hong Kong, 
Thailand, Taiwan, Kazakhstan, Malaysia and Mongolia. Further nations affected 
by operations also include Kyrgyzstan, Nepal, Turkey, India, Pakistan, Egypt, 
France, Cambodia, Uganda, Rwanda, Indonesia, Vietnam, Philippines, South Ko-
rea, China, Nigeria, Afghanistan and Myanmar (see Figure 2). 
Figure 2: evaluation of affected countries (N = 78) 
The leaked data contains no information on affected entities in Germany. However, 
there are indications that point towards compromises related to EU institutions, as 
well as attacks against European states and EU member states. 
 
3. Specific targets 
The leaked presentation of i-Soon’s capabilities and services advertise the com-
promise of networks in the government, medical, transport, energy and telecom-
munications sector. This is supported by the leaked data covering specific cyber 
operations and targets against government institutions, telecommunications ser-
vice providers, science and education institutions, medical institutions and data 
collections on demographics and religious institutions. 
BfV CYBER INSIGHT 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bundesamt für Verfassungsschutz | CYBER INSIGHT  
The i-Soon-Leaks, part 3: Affected countries and specific targets of i-Soon 
5 
With a percentage of over 40 %, government institutions by far account for the 
largest proportion of affected sectors, followed by telecommunications service pro-
viders with almost 25 % (see Figure 3). 
Figure 3: sectors affected by campaigns 
The leaked information illustrates the professionalized approach of the hacking 
industry. The current progress of concrete attack operations is documented in ten 
columns (see Figure 4). 
Figure 4: list of on-going cyber operations 
Columns contain information on 
• country of destination, 
• target type, 
• target name, 
24,36
43,59
14,10
12,82
Sectors concerned as a percentage
Operator
Government
Medical
Science and Technology
Education
BfV CYBER INSIGHT 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bundesamt für Verfassungsschutz | CYBER INSIGHT  
The i-Soon-Leaks, part 3: Affected countries and specific targets of i-Soon 
6 
• domain, 
• file sample size, 
• date of sampling, 
• type of data; 
• access options, 
• rights group; and 
• comments regarding the listed entity. 
The data covers a period of up to two years in which i-Soon is believed to have 
gained access to the affected networks. Leaked chat logs show that listed samples 
are sent to customers for evaluation. In case of approval by the customer, a com-
plete data set is provided by i-Soon; in case of refusal, other data is acquired. 
In its entirety, the leaked data provides decisive insight into the actual extent of 
cyber operations. It shows that compromises not only lasted a long time, but were 
also often far-reaching in terms of access to information and obtained administra-
tive rights. Customers were given comprehensive powers in the infiltrated networks 
with which it was possible to gain a deep understanding of internal structures of 
the compromised organizations. 
One example of the scope of activities is the case of a Kazakh telecommunications 
company. To give possible clients a first impression, i-Soon offered a total of 
820 GB of exfiltrated company data as a sample. Offered services included the full 
control over the intranet including file servers, anti-virus servers, etc. as well as the 
possibility of real-time queries on users' call records (see Figure 5). 
Figure 5: data example of Kazakh telecommunications company4 
                                            
4 
The table is shortened for a better overview. Entries for the date of the operation and the rights group are 
not included. 
BfV CYBER INSIGHT 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bundesamt für Verfassungsschutz | CYBER INSIGHT  
The i-Soon-Leaks, part 3: Affected countries and specific targets of i-Soon 
7 
Further findings on concrete i-Soon targets were obtained by the evaluation of 
leaked screenshots of captured data. Amongst other things, they contain chat his-
tories and folder directories with victim data and imply activities against targets 
including EU institutions and member states. Although there is no further infor-
mation on the individual attack operations, the screenshots indicate the extent to 
which i-Soon is able to compromise the internal networks of government organiza-
tions. 
For example, one screenshot of a folder directory shows files that appear to origi-
nate from a French entity. The list of classified EU documents contain the keyword 
ZEUS (see Figure 6). This stands for "ZED! For European Union Security" and is 
an encryption standard developed by the French company Prim'X Technologies. 
ZED! is used by EU institutions and member states to send classified files. The 
procedure is also used for classified NATO files. 
Figure 6: EU-related victim files 
The screenshots of exfiltrated data demonstrate a continued interest in information 
in EU matters. In addition, they reveal how flexible the methods of private hacker 
companies and malicious software providers are in their pursuit for information. 
For example, one chat discussed if (exploited) documents contained abbreviations 
for "the (European) Parliament" or "the (European) Council" (see Figure 7). 
 
 
BfV CYBER INSIGHT 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bundesamt für Verfassungsschutz | CYBER INSIGHT  
The i-Soon-Leaks, part 3: Affected countries and specific targets of i-Soon 
8 
Figure 7: chat on presumably exfiltrated EU documents 
Further screenshots of victim files indicate compromises in North Macedonia (see 
Figure 8). A folder named "Notes of the Secretariat for European Affairs of North 
Macedonia" may imply that attackers were interested in gaining information on the 
accession negotiations of North Macedonia with the EU. Furthermore, the 
machine-translated filename "North Macedonia Public Guidance on Tax Services" 
points towards a greater interest in North Macedonian public institutions. 
Figure 8: folder concerning North Macedonia 
There is more evidence that marks the attacker’s interest in EU topics. One leaked 
screenshot contains the abbreviation "mvz" in the directory path, which may stand 
for Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Czech Republic (Ministerstva zahranicnich 
veci). The documents refer to the rotating Presidency of the Council of the EU for 
the second half of 2022 (see Figure 9). 
 
BfV CYBER INSIGHT 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bundesamt für Verfassungsschutz | CYBER INSIGHT  
The i-Soon-Leaks, part 3: Affected countries and specific targets of i-Soon 
9 
Figure 9: files related to the Czech Republic 
Another screenshot shows a possible target selection for cyber campaigns in the 
United Kingdom (UK) (see Figure 10). Here, numerous entities in the context of 
foreign policy are listed. In addition, there are other institutions that appear to have 
been randomly listed. One possible explanation is that the attackers presume that 
these potentially less-secured networks provide an entry-point through which more 
highly secured targets can be accessed. 
Figure 10: possible targets in the UK5 
 
                                            
5 
Due to poor readability, some lines were not translated. 
BfV CYBER INSIGHT 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bundesamt für Verfassungsschutz | CYBER INSIGHT  
The i-Soon-Leaks, part 3: Affected countries and specific targets of i-Soon 
10 
4. Targeting in line with China’s geopolitical interests 
The i-Soon-leaks provide a rare insight into the activities of a single medium-sized 
company. Just based on the leaked information of this one Chinese company 
alone, it can be assumed that there are many more companies, who carry out 
similar operations. Thus, it is extremely likely that there is a large number of suc-
cessful cyberattacks worldwide that are hitherto undetected. 
Both the target countries exposed in the leak and the targeted information show a 
focal targeting on political topics by i-Soon. The regional focus on Hong Kong, 
Thailand, Taiwan, Kazakhstan, Malaysia and Mongolia, as well as the numerous 
attacks on government institutions and telecommunications providers, coincide 
with China's geopolitical interests. The aforementioned countries are relevant tar-
gets for obtaining political information. 
The final report on i-Soon covers offered products and customers (part 4). The 
previous reporting on the i-Soon-leaks exposes the organization and methods of 
i-Soon APT units (part 1) and examines i-Soon’s links to the Chinese security ap-
paratus (part 2).  
 
 
BfV CYBER INSIGHT 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bundesamt für Verfassungsschutz | CYBER INSIGHT  
The i-Soon-Leaks, part 3: Affected countries and specific targets of i-Soon 
11 
 
 
 
 
Publication information 
 
Published by 
Bundesamt für Verfassungsschutz 
Abteilung 4 
Merianstraße 100 
50765 Köln 
poststelle@bfv.bund.de  
www.verfassungsschutz.de 
Tel.: +49 (0) 228/99 792-0 
Fax: +49 (0) 228/99 792-2600 
Image credits 
cover: BfV, ai-generated 
Date of Information 
July 2024 
