1/7
17. Dezember 2021
DSIRFWe unveil the “Subzero” state trojan from Austria
netzpolitik-org.translate.goog/2021/dsirf-wir-enthuellen-den-staatstrojaner-subzero-aus-oesterreich
In August 2018 sent Florian Stermann , a "businessman with best Kremlin contacts" , an e-mail to Jan
Marsalek, then still board the scandal company Wirecard, meanwhile, sought an international arrest
warrant alleged economic criminal. Stermann sent Marsalek "as discussed the company description " of
the DSIRF company, including information on their state Trojan product "Subzero".
In was first Focus reported . We have now received the original documents and are now publishing the
company presentation as PDF , text and gallery . For legal reasons we had to remove some personal
data.
According to the company description, DSIRF was founded "in June 2016" . This refers to the DSIRF
GmbH in Vienna. This company belongs to DSR Decision Supporting Information Research Forensic
GmbH at the same address. This in turn belongs to the Deep Dive Research Lab AG in Liechtenstein.
Until recently there was another joint stock company in Switzerland. A company network.
According to its own statements , the story of DSIRF begins with analyzing “elections and election
campaigning methods ” and “fraudulent hacking operations” as well as exposing “foreign information
warfare tactics”. DSIRF used these skills to advertise the US presidential election in 2016, when Russia
was accused of hacking operations and influencing the US election campaign.
In a next step, DSIRF developed “advanced biometrics” for “face, object and pattern recognition” for
“commercial and public security”. At the same time, DSIRF devoted itself to “cyber warfare”.
Cyber   warfare
The largest part of the company presentation revolves around the product Subzero, a “state-of-the-art
computer monitoring tool” for “exfiltration of sensitive / private data” . Use cases are for example
terrorism, crime and financial fraud . A state Trojan. Germany is also looking into buying and using
Subzero .
According to self-promotion, Subzero can be stealthily installed on the target device via "multiple attack
vectors " , both with physical access and remotely. Allegedly, the Trojan enables "invisible surveillance
through the use of unique anti-virus bypassing techniques" .
Once installed, Subzero takes "full control of the target computer" and offers "full access to all data and
passwords," claims DSIRF. The Subzero customers can via a Web interface to extract passwords ,
screenshots make , view current and past locations and "access files on the target computer, download
them, edit and upload" .
DSIRF promotes Subzero as "next generation cyber warfare" , the tool was "developed for the cyber age"
. However, when it was launched in 2018, the state trojan only supported target devices with Windows.
Support for macOS as well as mobile devices with Android and iOS is a "next step" .
2/7
When asked by netzpolitik.org, the managing director Drazen Mokic did not want to say whether Subzero
supports these devices today: "We do not provide any information on technical specifications."
Under zero
The company presentation from 2018 speaks of "a network of over 30 employees and contractors" and
lists five employees as leaders in the Subzero team . Drazen Mokic was "Product Manager and Team
Leader" for Subzero at the time, and is now the managing director of DSIRF GmbH.
Mokic succeeds Julian-Thomas Erdödy , the former managing director left DSIRF a year ago. According
to the presentation, the developer Cem Baykam is responsible for machine learning and artificial
intelligence.
The lead engineer Kuba G. is an experienced reverse engineer who advertises on various platforms to
develop a machine-in-the-middle attack tool for phishing access data. Since it has not been publicly
confirmed that he works for DSIRF, we are not allowed to give his last name. This also applies to security
researcher Saša B., who has not updated his LinkedIn profile since DSIRF was founded.
None of the four people responded to our repeated questions about their roles and positions.
When asked, Managing Director Drazen Mokic said: “We do not provide any information about the
company's precise personnel situation. In general, however, the following applies: The teams working on
a topic are configured according to needs and requirements, so that the number of employees involved in
a project changes frequently. "
Traces to Moscow
In the 2018 presentation, DSIRF also named five references for the company and its products . The
company advertises with well-known and networked people from the international business world, the
Focus describes it as a fairly illustrious company . Those who spoke to us know the company DSIRF, but
not the state trojan product Subzero. Two of them did not know that they were named, it is quite possible
that the other two were also not informed.
As a reference for "politics and trade", DSIRF names Michael Harms , managing director of the
Association for the East Committee of German Business . Harms comments to netzpolitik.org: “DSIRF
GmbH is a member company in the Eastern Committee. The naming of the Eastern Committee as a
reference was not discussed with us. Contacts to DSIRF exist within the usual framework of membership.
The Eastern Committee itself does not use any of the company's products and does not know the product
'Subzero'. "
DSIRF names for the area “retail” is the name of Stephan Fanderl , at that time chairman of the board of
directors of the department store group Galeria Karstadt Kaufhof , who was supposed to bring Wal-Mart
to Russia . Fanderl also states that he “does not know this company presentation” and “he did not agree
to any kind of 'reference'”. There was “a contact between a previous employer and DSIRF, in the context
of which the company was commissioned with the implementation of data security.” Fanderl does not
know any individual products from DSIRF, not even Subzero.
3/7
Christian Kremer serves DSIRF as a reference for the "Production" area. He was formerly President of
BMW in Russia and, at the time of the presentation, Deputy General Manager of Russian Machines . The
US government imposed sanctions on Russian Machines in January 2018 - seven months before DSIRF
was named . According to LinkedIn , he has not been there since March 2019. Christian Kremer did not
respond to our request.
DSIRF names another person from Moscow for the area of   "law": Florian Schneider , partner at the large
business law firm Dentons . Schneider did not respond to our repeated inquiries either. The reference to
the "banking" area is not named, according to the presentation there is a confidentiality agreement.
All references mentioned by name have good connections to Russia, according to Focus all traces lead
to Moscow .
Most wanted man in the world
There are now a number of companies that offer state Trojans. With the industry leader NSO Group from
Israel with 700 employees and companies like FinFisher from Germany, DSIRF cannot keep up with
Subzero.
But at least the German hacker authority ZITiS is examining the purchase and use of Subzero by the
police and secret services.
We couldn't find out whether DSIRF had already sold Subzero at all. When asked, Managing Director
Drazen Mokic said: "To this day, Subzero has not been used either operationally or commercially."
The state Trojan is still being marketed. That the former Wirecard manager Jan Marsalek is involved is
only strange at first glance. As early as 2013 Marsalek apparently tried to sell the state Trojan from the
Italian company Hacking Team to the Caribbean state of Grenada. This is what Spiegel and Motherboard
reported with reference to emails from the Hacking Team at WikiLeaks .
Unfortunately we cannot ask Jan Marsalek about his role. The alleged white-collar criminal is the most
wanted man in the world and is being searched for with an international arrest warrant . According to
Bellingcat and Handelsblatt , he is hiding in Moscow.
Here are the slides freed from the PDF :
4/7
 
 
5/7
 
 
6/7
 
 
7/7
 
 
 
 
