1/7
www.trendmicro.com
/en_us/research/24/h/earth-baku-latest-campaign.html
A Dive into Earth Baku’s Latest Campaign
⋮ 8/9/2024
APT & Targeted Attacks
Earth Baku has broadened its scope from the Indo-Pacific region to Europe, the Middle East, and Africa.
In this blog entry, we examine the threat actor's latest tools, tactics, and procedures.
By: Ted Lee, Theo Chen
August 09, 2024
Read time: 6 min (1512 words)
Summary
Earth Baku (a threat actor associated with APT41)  has expanded its activities beyond the Indo-
Pacific region to Europe, the Middle East, and Africa — targeting countries like Italy, Germany,
UAE, and Qatar, with suspected threat activity in Georgia and Romania.
The group uses public-facing applications such as IIS servers as entry points, deploying advanced
malware toolsets such as the Godzilla webshell, StealthVector, StealthReacher, and SneakCross.
StealthVector and StealthReacher are customized loaders that deploy backdoor components while
employing techniques such as AES encryption and code obfuscation for stealth. SneakCross, the
group’s latest backdoor, uses Google services for command-and-control (C&C) activities and
boasts a modular design for easer updates.
During post-exploitation, Earth Baku uses tools like a customized iox tool, Rakshasa, and Tailscale
to maintain persistence, along with MEGAcmd for data exfiltration.
Earth Baku, an advanced persistent threat (APT) actor that we previously wrote about in 2021, has
expanded its activities to Europe, the Middle East, and Africa (MEA) beginning late 2022. The group has
updated its tools, tactics, and procedures (TTPs) in more recent campaigns, making use of public-facing
applications such as IIS servers as entry points for attacks, after which they deploy sophisticated
malware toolsets on the victim’s environment, including the loaders StealthVector and StealthReacher,
and the modular backdoor SneakCross.
Victimology
Initially targeting the Indo-Pacific region with their earlier campaigns, Earth Baku started expanding their
presence to Europe, the Middle East, and Africa, which includes countries such as Italy, Germany, UAE
and Qatar. Furthermore, we also observed connections to the threat actor’s infrastructure originating from
Georgia, and multiple malware toolsets uploaded from Romania. Hence, we think these two countries are
also likely under threat as well. Figure 1 shows all the regions which we believe are potentially under
threat from Earth Baku.
2/7
Figure 1. Map chart for Earth Baku’s scope of potential impact
download
Based on our investigation, the targeted sectors included the following:
Government
Media and Communications
Telecom
Technology
Healthcare
Education
Infection Vector
In the group’s recent operations, Earth Baku’s attacks exploited public-facing applications, specifically IIS
servers, as an entry point for attacks. Once the perpetrators gain access, they deploy the Godzilla
webshell, which allows them to maintain control over the compromised server. Through Godzilla, Earth
Baku is then able to deploy the shellcode loader StealthVector and its backdoor components, Cobalt
Strike, and a new backdoor named SneakCross.
During the post-exploitation stage, Earth Baku will attempt to build reverse tunnels to maintain control
access by using publicly available reverse tunneling tools. In addition, we observed MEGAcmd tool being
deployed into the victim’s environment, likely for data exfiltration.
3/7
Figure 2. The infection vector of recent campaigns
download
Technical Analysis
Loader: StealthVector and StealthReacher
StealthVector is a customized backdoor loader used to launch Earth Baku’s backdoor components in
stealth mode. This year, we observed Earth Baku adding two new loaders to launch its backdoor
components: CobaltStrike and SneakCross (aka MoonWalk).
New StealthVector
The new StealthVector is very similar to the one found in 2021. Although it has changed little in terms of
configuration structure, it now uses AES as its encryption algorithm instead of customized  ChaCha20. In
some variants, we also observed a code virtualizer being used for code obfuscation, making the malware
more difficult to analyze. It also inherited other defense evasion techniques to make sure the backdoor
components were executed stealthily.
ETW and CFG Disable: Disabling Event Tracing for Windows (ETW) and Control Flow Guard
(CFG) to mitigate footprint and avoid detection.
DLL Hollowing: StealthVector will import a legitimate DLL from the System32 folder and inject
malicious code into the section of the legitimate DLL file.
4/7
Figure 3. Obfuscated main function by code virtualizer
StealthReacher
StealthReacher (aka DodgeBox) can be considered as an enhanced variant of StealthVector, featuring
code obfuscation techniques such as FNV1-a and other defense evasion mechanisms. Compared to the
older StealthVector, it uses AES algorithms for encryption and MD5 hashing for checksum. Based on our
observations, StealthReacher is the specified loader to launch the new modular backdoor, SneakCross.
It’s noting that both StealthVector and StealthReacher will perform re-encryption after the first initiation via
XOR encryption, with the key being the victim’s computer name. From a digital forensics' aspect, it is
5/7
challenging to decrypt and analyze the collected payload even though all the components (loader and
payload) were collected at the same time.
Backdoor: SneakCross
SneakCross is a new modular backdoor that uses Google services for its command-and-control (C&C)
communication. It employs Windows Fibers to evade detection from network protection products and
EDR solutions. We believe it to be the successor to their previous modular backdoor, ScrambleCross,
which was mentioned in our previous report. The modular design allows attackers to easily update its
capabilities, modify its behavior, and customize functionality for different scenarios.
In Google Cloud’s report, they mentioned that they successfully found at least 15 plugins that support
various backdoor functions including:
Shell Operations
File System Operations
Process Operations
Network Probing
Network Store Interface Operations
Screen Operations
System Information Discovery
File Manipulation Operations
Keylogger
Active Directory Operations
File Uploader
RDP
DNS Operations
DNS Cache Operations
Registry Operations
Post-Exploitation routine
During the post-exploitation stage, Earth Baku will deploy various tools on the victim’s environment for
persistence, privilege escalation, discovery and exfiltration. In this section, we ‘ll examine the most
noteworthy of these tools.
Persistence: reverse-tunnel
We found the threat actors attempting to build reverse tunnels with the following tools for persistent
control access to compromised machines:
Customized iox tool           
The perpetrators built their own iox tunneling tool based on its public source code. Changes include
simplified required arguments (local IP/Port) and an additional special argument -ggg. To launch the tool,
the user needs to input this special argument, after which the tool works properly.
6/7
Rakshasa
Rakshasa is a powerful proxy tool written in Go, designed specifically for multi-level proxying and internal
network penetration.
Tailscale
Tailscale is a Virtual Private Network (VPN) service created to enable secure connectivity between
devices within a unified virtual network. Recently, we have identified threat actors attempting to
incorporate compromised systems into their virtual networks using the Tailscale platform. Additionally,
these threat actors have been using legitimate Tailscale servers as intermediaries, significantly
complicating the process of tracing the origins of their activities.
Exfiltration
Within the victim’s environment, we found many MEGAcmd tools dropped onto infected machines.
MEGAcmd is a command-line tool used for interacting with the MEGA cloud storage service.  We infer
that the threat actors attempted to use this tool for exfiltrating stolen data to MEGA, hoping to capitalize
on its ability to efficiently upload large volumes of data. This procedure was also observed with an
associated group, Earth Lusca.
Conclusion
Earth Baku has significantly expanded its reach from the Indo-Pacific to Europe and MEA since late
2022. Their recent operations showcase advanced techniques, including the use of public-facing
applications like IIS servers for initial access and the deployment of the Godzilla webshell for control. The
group has employed new loaders such as StealthVector and StealthReacher, to stealthily launch
backdoor components, and added SneakCross as their latest modular backdoor. Earth Baku also used
several tools during its post-exploitation including a customized iox tool, Rakshasa, TailScale for
persistence, and MEGAcmd for efficient data exfiltration. These developments underscore Earth Baku’s
evolving and increasingly sophisticated threat profile, which can potentially pose significant challenges for
cybersecurity defenses.
Recommendations
To defend against cyberespionage tactics and minimize the risk of compromise, both individual users and
organizations implement the following best practices:
Implementing the principle of least privilege: Restricting access to sensitive data and closely
monitoring user permissions makes it more challenging for attackers to move laterally within a
corporate network.
Addressing security gaps: Regularly updating systems and applications and enforcing strict
patch management policies allows organizations to address security gaps within their system.
Furthermore, employing virtual patching can help secure legacy systems for which patches are
unavailable.
7/7
Developing a proactive incident response strategy: Deploying defensive measures designed to
identify and mitigate threats in the event of a breach, and conducting regular security drills
improves the effectiveness of an organization’s incident response plan.
Adopting the 3-2-1 backup rule: Maintaining at least three copies of corporate data in two
different formats, with one air-gapped copy stored off-site ensures that data remains intact even in
the event of a successful attack. Regularly updating and testing these backups helps ensure the
integrity of the data.
Trend solutions
Organizations looking to defend themselves from sophisticated attacks can consider powerful security
technologies such as Trend Vision One™, which allows security teams to continuously identify attack
surfaces, including both known and unknown, plus managed and unmanaged cyber assets.
It assists organizations in prioritizing and addressing potential risks and vulnerabilities by evaluating
critical factors, such as the likelihood and impact of possible attacks, providing a comprehensive set of
prevention, detection, and response capabilities, all supported by advanced threat research, intelligence,
and AI. Vision One enhances an organization's overall security posture and effectiveness, offering robust
protection against all types of attacks.
Indicators of Compromise
The indicators of compromise for this entry can be found here.
