,. 
UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT 
WESTERN DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
V. 
Criminal No. 20-j (' 
YURIY SERGEYEVICH ANDRIENKO, 
18 U.S.C. §§ 371, 1030(a)(2)(C), 
SERGEY VLADIMIROVICH DETISTOV, 
1030(a)(5)(A), 3559(g)(l) 
PAVEL VALERYEVICHFROLOV, 
(Conspiracy) 
ANATOLIY SERGEYEVICH KOVALEV, 
18 u.s.c. § 1349 
ARTEM VALERYEVICH OCHICHENKO, and 
(Conspiracy to Commit Wire Fraud) 
PETR NIKOLA YEVICH PLISKIN, 
18 U.S.C. § 1343 (Wire Fraud) 
18 U.S.C. § 1030(a)(5)(A) and 
Defendants. 
1030(c)(4)(B) (Damage to Computers) 
18 U.S.C. § 1028A (Aggravated Identity 
Theft) 
18 U.S.C. § 2 (Aiding and Abetting) 
OCT 1 S 2020 
[UNDER SEAL] 
CLl:~K U,S, OIS'fl~ICT COURT 
INDICTMENT 
WEST. DIST. OF PENNSYLVANIA 
COUNT ONE 
(Conspiracy to Commit an Offense Against the United States) 
The grand jury charges: 
1. 
At all times relevant to the indictment, from at least in and around November 2015 
through in and around October 2019, the Russian Federation ("Russia") operated a military 
intelligence agency called the Main Intelligence Directorate of the General Staff of the Armed 
Forces ("GRU"). The GRU was headquartered in Moscow, Russia, and was comprised ofmultiple 
units, including Military Unit 74455, which was also known within the GRU as the "Main Center 
for Special Technologies" (also known as "GTsST") and by cybersecurity researchers as 
Sandworm Team, Telebots, Voodoo Bear, and Iron Viking. Military Unit 74455 was primarily 
1 
located at 22 Kirova Street, Khimki, Moscow, Russia, a building referred to within the GRU as 
"the Tower." 
2. 
Defendants 
YURIY 
SERGEYEVICH ANDRIENKO 
(IOp:nu: 
CepreeBnq 
AH,n;pneHKo), SERGEY VLADIMIROVICH DETISTOV (Cepren: BrraunMnpoBnq ,lJ;eTIICTOB), 
PAVEL 
VALERYEVICH 
FROLOV 
(IlaBen 
BanepLeB:nq 
(J)porroB), 
ANATOLIY 
SERGEYEVICH KOVALEV (AHaTon:nu: CepreeBHq KoBaneB), ARTEM VALERYEVICH 
OCHICHENKO (ApTeM BanepbeBIIq OqIIqeHKO), and PETR NIKOLAYEVICH PLISKIN (IleTp 
HIIKonaeBHq TirrIICKHH) were GRU officers working for Military Unit 74455 who knowingly and 
intentionally conspired with each other and with persons known and unknown to the grand jury 
(collectively, the "Conspirators") to deploy destructive malware and take other disruptive actions, 
for the strategic benefit ofRussia, through unauthorized access to victim computers. This included 
cyber-enabled malicious actions aimed at supporting broader Russian government efforts­
regardless of the consequences to innocent parties and critical infrastructure worldwide-to 
undermine, retaliate against, or otherwise destabilize: (1) Ukraine; (2) the country of Georgia; 
(3) France's elections; ( 4) efforts to hold Russia accountable for its use of a weapons-grade nerve 
agent on foreign soil; and (5) the 2018 Winter Olympics after a Russian government-sponsored 
doping effort led to Russian athletes being unable to participate under the Russian flag. 
THE VICTIMS 
3. 
Among the victims targeted by Military Unit 74455 were thousands of U.S. and 
international corporations, organizations, and political campaigns and parties; foreign 
governments; entities and corporations associated with the 2018 Winter Olympic Games; and their 
respective employees. The victims included: 
2 
a. 
Ukraine, through the Conspirators' deployment in and around December 
2015 and December 2016 of destructive "BlackEnergy," "KillDisk," and 
"Industroyer" malware against companies supporting Ukraine's electric 
power grid and against Ukraine's Ministry of Finance and State Treasury 
Service; 
b. 
France, through spearphishing campaigns in and around April and May 
201 7 targeting local government entities, political parties, and campaigns, 
including now~French President Emmanuel Macron's "La Republique En 
Marche!" political party in connection with Macron's 2017 presidential 
campaign; 
c. 
Hundreds of worldwide victims of the "NotPetya" malware attacks in and 
around June 2017, including: (1) civilian critical infrastructure, such as the 
Heritage Valley Health System, located in Sewickley, Pennsylvania, and 
Beaver, Pennsylvania, in the Western District of Pennsylvania, which had 
approximately 80 affected medical facilities; (2) a FedEx Corporation 
subsidiary, TNT Express B.V., which was one ofthe world's largest express 
delivery companies; and (3) a large U.S. pham1aceutical manufacturer, 
which together had nearly $1 billion in losses resulting from the attacks; 
d. 
International victims associated with the 2018 Winter Olympic Games, 
including: (1) Olympic partners and athletes, Republic of Korea (also 
known as South Korea) government agencies, and the International 
Olympic Committee ("IOC"), which the Conspirators targeted through 
3 
spearphishing campaigns from in and around December 2017 until in and 
around February 2018; (2) South Korean nationals and international visitors 
to South Korea, whom the Conspirators targeted with malicious mobile 
applications in and around December 2017 and January 2018; and (3) the 
2018 Winter Olympic Games more generally, through the deployment of 
destructive "Olympic Destroyer" malware against computer systems used 
by the Olympic Games' information technology vendor and the 
PyeongChang Organizing Committee for the 2018 Olympic & Paralympic 
Winter Games ("PyeongChang Organizing Committee") in and around 
February 2018; 
e. 
International and government organizations investigating the poisoning of 
a former GRU officer and his daughter in the United Kingdom, through, 
among other conduct, a spearphishing campaign in and around April 2018 
targeting the Organisation for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons 
("OPCW") and the United Kingdom's Defence Science and Technology 
Laboratory ("DSTL"); and 
f. 
The country of Georgia and Georgian non-government organizations and 
private companies, including through a spearphishing campaign in and 
around January 2018 targeting a Georgian media outlet and a cyber attack 
in and around October 2019 that defaced approximately 15,000 websites 
and disrupted service to some of these websites. 
4 
THE DEFENDANTS 
4. 
Defendant YURIY SERGEYEVICH ANDRIENKO was a Russian military 
intelligence officer assigned to Military Unit 74455. 
ANDRIENKO, together with PAVEL 
VALERYEVICH 
FROLOV, 
SERGEY 
VLADIMIROVICH 
DETISTOV, 
and 
PETR 
NIKOLA YEVICH PLISKIN, developed components of the NotPetya malware. ANDRIENKO, 
together with PLISKIN, also developed components ofthe Olympic Destroyer malware. 
5. 
Defendant SERGEY VLADIMIROVICH DETISTOV was a Russian military 
intelligence officer assigned to Military Unit 74455. During his tenure with the unit, DETISTOV 
held the position of captain. DETISTOV developed components of the NotPetya malware and 
prepared infrastructure for a spearphishing campaign targeting the 2018 Winter Olympics. 
6. 
Defendant PAVEL VALERYEVICH FROLOV was a Russian military intelligence 
officer assigned to Military Unit 74455. FROLOV developed components of the NotPetya 
malware and the malware that the Conspirators used against Ukraine's Ministry of Finance and 
State Treasury Service. 
7. 
Defendant ANATOLIY SERGEYEVICH KOV ALEV was a Russian military 
intelligence officer assigned to Military Unit 74455. KOVALEV sent spearphishing emails 
targeting a wide variety of entities and individuals, including those associated with French local 
government entities, political parties, and campaigns; the 2018 Winter Olympics; the DSTL; and 
a Georgian media entity. KOVALEV also engaged in spearphishing campaigns for apparent 
personal profit, including campaigns targeting large Russian real estate companies, auto dealers, 
and cryptocurrency miners, as well as cryptocurrency exchanges located outside of Russia. 
5 
KOV ALEY is a charged defendant in federal indictment number 18-CR-215 in the District of 
Columbia. 
8. 
Defendant ARTEM VALERYEVICH OCHICHENKO served as a Russian 
military intelligence officer in Military Unit 74455. OCHICHENKO developed malicious email 
attachments and sent spearphishing emails containing those attachments to individuals working 
for the 2018 Winter Olympics' official timekeeping partners and their subsidiaries. 
OCHICHENKO was also involved in the Conspirators' targeting ofthe Georgian government and 
other Georgian entities in 2019. 
9. 
Defendant PETR NIKOLAYEVICH PLISKIN served as a Russian military 
intelligence officer in Military Unit 74455 from the beginning ofthe conspiracy until in and around 
June 2018. 
During his tenure with the unit, PLISKIN served in a supervisory role as a 
Development Team Lead/IT manager. PLISKIN developed components of the NotPetya and 
Olympic Destroyer malware. 
(Images ofdefendants ANDRIENKO, DETISTOV, FROLOV, KOVALEY, OCHICHENKO, and 
PLISKIN are attached as Exhibit A.) 
OBJECT OF THE CONSPIRACY 
10. 
The object of the conspiracy was to deploy destructive malware and take other 
disruptive actions, for the strategic benefit of Russia, through unauthorized access ("hacking") of 
victim computers. 
MANNER AND MEANS OF THE CONSPIRACY 
11. 
In furtherance of the conspiracy, ANDRIENKO, DETISTOV, FROLOV, 
KOVALEV, OCHICHENKO, PLISKIN, and others known and unknown to the grand jury 
6 
procured, maintained, and utilized servers, email accounts, malicious mobile applications, and 
related hacking infrastructure to engage in spearphishing campaigns and other network intrusion 
methods against computers used by the victims. 
Also in furtherance of the conspiracy, 
ANDRIENKO, DETISTOV, FROLOV, and PLISKIN developed and deployed destructive 
malware against victim entities around the world, including in the Western District of 
Pennsylvania. 
12. 
In order to avoid detection by law enforcement, security researchers, and victims, 
and to mask their GRU affiliation and location in Russia, the Conspirators used a variety of 
fictitious names and personas, as well as online infrastructure (including servers, domains, 
cryptocurrency, email accounts, social media accounts, and other online services) provided by 
companies in the United States and elsewhere. The Conspirators used this infrastructure for a wide 
range of conduct in furtherance of the conspiracy, including to: (1) communicate, research, and 
probe victim computer networks; (2) register malicious websites and domains with names 
mimicking legitimate ones; (3) send spearphishing emails; ( 4) store and distribute additional 
malware; (5) manage malware; (6) transfer stolen data; and (7) negatively influence the public 
perception of some of the victims. The Conspirators reused some of the same infrastructure to 
target multiple victim organizations and individuals. 
13. 
To further mask their identities and conduct and to facilitate the purchase and 
leasing of infrastructure (such as servers and domain names) used in their hacking activity, the 
Conspirators paid for infrastructure using cryptocurrencies, such as bitcoin, and often leased 
infrastructure from resellers rather than leasing infrastructure directly from hosting companies. 
7 
The Conspirators also used numerous operational accounts in fictitious names to purchase and 
lease infrastructure. 
14. 
The Conspirators registered domain names and created URLs for use in their 
hacking activities that were designed to mimic or "spoof' those oflegitimate websites that victims 
were familiar with, including email login pages, online file sharing and storage websites, and 
password reset pages. Examples include msrole.com/office_conf (which mimicked a website 
belonging to Microsoft) and jeojang.ga (with respect to which the Conspirators created the 
subdomain mafra.go.kr.jeojang.ga, which mimicked a website belonging to the Korean Ministry 
ofAgriculture, Food, and Rural Affairs, 
The Conspirators used each ofthese domain 
names in connection with spearphishing campaigns targeting entities and individuals associated 
with the 2018 Winter Olympics. 
15. 
The Conspirators typically initiated their hacking activities by researching the 
victim organizations, including their computer networks and employees. This research provided 
technical and biographical information that the Conspirators could exploit in subsequent intrusion 
activities (e.g., spearphishing campaigns). 
16. 
The Conspirators crafted their spearphishing emails to trick unwitting recipients 
into giving the Conspirators access to their computers or account credentials (e.g., usernames and 
passwords). The Conspirators crafted these emails to resemble emails from trustworthy senders, 
such as email providers or colleagues, and encouraged the recipients to click on hyperlinks in the 
messages. Other spearphishing emails crafted by the Conspirators attached documents containing 
malware that, when opened and executed by the victims, infected victims' computers. 
8 
17. 
The Conspirators used malware and hacking tools such as "BlackEnergy," 
"Industroyer," "KillDisk," "NotPetya," and "Olympic Destroyer" to hack into victim computers 
and networks, maintain command and control over such computers and networks, steal network 
credentials, obtain access to sensitive and private data, and render such computers and networks 
inoperable. To craft their malware, the Conspirators customized publicly available malware and 
hacking tools, and, in some instances, purposefully attempted to mimic the malware of other 
hacking groups-including the Lazarus Group, a state-sponsored hacking team in the Democratic 
People's Republic of Korea (which is also known as North Korea)-as part of a "false flag" 
operation. The Conspirators also created certain malware components from scratch, including 
components enabling the Conspirators to conduct the destructive portions of their attacks. 
18. 
After hacking into victim computers, the Conspirators performed a variety of 
functions designed to identify, collect, package, and view targeted data on victims' computers, 
including stealing credentials that allowed the Conspirators to move laterally and exponentially 
throughout victims' computer networks. The Conspirators also overwrote files and erased data 
from victim computers. 
19. 
In addition, both during and after operational activity, the Conspirators made efforts 
to cover their tracks by deleting information from their operational accounts and deleting data on 
servers they controlled or had compromised. 
COMPUTER INTRUSIONS AND OTHER OVERT ACTS 
The 2015 and 2016 Attacks Targeting Ukraine's Electric Power Grid 
20. 
On or about December 23, 2015, the Conspirators hacked into the computer 
systems belonging to three Ukrainian energy distribution companies, interacted remotely with 
9 
control systems in dozens of power distribution substations used by these companies, and 
successfully disrupted the supply of electricity to more than 225,000 Ukrainian customers. 
21. 
The preparations for this attack commenced in and around late spring 2015, when 
the Conspirators used spearphishing emails to obtain access into the three energy distribution 
companies' computer systems and then used destructive malware against the computer systems. 
a. 
The spearphishing campaign targeted the companies' information 
technology staff and system administrators using emails attaching malware­
laced files. 
b. 
Once they had obtained access to the victims' computer systems, the 
Conspirators used a particular variant of malware called "BlackEnergy" to 
steal user credentials. The Conspirators used the stolen credentials to access 
the Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition ("SCADA") networks at the 
Ukrainian energy distribution companies. 
The Conspirators also used 
destructive malware called "KillDisk" at the conclusion of the attacks to 
delete computer event logs and other files and reboot the infected 
computers. Once rebooted, the infected computers were inoperable. 
22. 
Almost a year later, on or about December 17, 2016, the Conspirators conducted a 
computer intrusion against a Ukrainian electric transmission company ("Electric Company l "). 
Electric Company 1 's computer network had been compromised by the Conspirators since in and 
around April 2016. In furtherance of the attack, the Conspirators used malware-which was later 
named "Industroyer" by cybersecurity researchers-that was specifically designed to attack power 
grids by gaining control of electrical substation switches and circuit breakers. 
23. 
The malware included a disk wiper plugin that the Conspirators used to delete 
Electric Company 1's key system files with certain file extensions (including common file 
extensions such as .zip and .exe, as well as file extensions specific to the brand ofindustrial control 
system used by Electric Company 1), thus rendering Electric Company 1's computer operating 
systems inoperable. In addition, the Conspirators' deployment ofthe malware disrupted the supply 
of electricity to Kiev, Ukraine, for approximately one hour. 
The December 2016 Attacks Against Ukraine's 
Ministry of Finance and State Treasury Service 
24. 
On or about December 6, 2016, while Ukraine was preparing end-of-year pension 
payments as well as the following year's budget, the Conspirators deployed destructive malware 
against Ukraine's Ministry of Finance and State Treasury Service. As a result of the attack, the 
State Treasury Service's regional subdivisions were disconnected from the State Treasury 
Service's automated payment system, preventing the execution of approximately 150,000 
electronic transactions. In addition, the attack temporarily disabled the Ministry of Finance's 
information and telecommunication infrastructure. 
25. 
The attack against the State Treasury Service began in and around October 2016 
with a spearphishing campaign that targeted the Service's system administrators. 
a. 
The spearphishing campaign utilized emails containing a malware-laced 
Microsoft Excel file called "MoF critical IT needs_eng.xls." 
b. 
The State Treasury Service's computer network was compromised by in and 
around October 2016 after a system administrator for the Service opened 
the Microsoft Excel file and enabled macros for the file. Allowing the 
macros to run resulted in the execution of the malware-laced file 
11 
"explorer.exe" on the employee's computer, which ultimately established 
unauthorized, covert encrypted communication between the computer and 
a third-party service used by the Conspirators. 
c. 
The Conspirators thereafter used a dedicated network connection between 
the State Treasury Service and Ukraine's Ministry of Finance to obtain 
unauthorized access to the Ministry of Finance's computer network. 
26. 
On or about December 6, 2016, the Conspirators deployed an updated version of 
the KillDisk malware-which was very similar to the version of the KillDisk malware the 
Conspirators used in the December 2015 cyber attacks against Ukraine's electric power grid-to: 
(1) delete the infected computers' Windows event logs; (2) delete all of the files that matched a 
list of file extensions hardcoded into the malware; and (3) overwrite portions of the infected 
computers' hard drives, thus rendering the computers inoperable. 
a. 
Once executed, the KillDisk malware used three different options to invoke 
different behaviors: (1) an option to set a specific date and time to execute 
the malware's destructive mode; (2) an option to specify a desired delay, in 
minutes, before executing the destructive mode; and (3) an option to specify 
desired functionality, including the malware's destructive mode. Once the 
KillDisk malware verified which options were selected, it prepared the 
infected computer system for file destruction. 
b. 
To do this, the KillDisk malware prepared several locations in the 
computer's memory for overwriting files by allocating a set area in the 
computer's memory. The KillDisk malware filled the first allocated 
12 
memory location with zeros and filled the second and third allocated 
memory locations with the repeated term "mrR0b07" and "fS0cie7y," 
respectively, which reference the television show "Mr. Robot." After the 
three allocated memory locations were filled with zeros, "mrR0b07," and 
"fS0cie7y," the KillDisk malware obtained a computer system privilege that 
allowed it to access all available files on the compromised computer system. 
c. 
FROLOV and other Conspirators designed the KillDisk malware such that 
the third option could create an art image of the "fsociety" mask from "Mr. 
Robot." The KillDisk malware did not store an image of the "fsociety" 
mask within the malware. Instead, FROLOV designed the malware to draw 
the image in real time on the infected computer's screen. The "fsociety" 
mask was computed from the following bitmap array embedded in the 
malware: 
13 
d. 
Once the "fsociety" mask image was drawn in memory, the malware 
displayed the image on the victim's computer screen on top of all other 
graphical windows: 
e. 
The third option could also enable KillDisk to destroy all files on the 
infected computer that ended with one of more than 100 different file 
extensions. To destroy each file on compromised computers, KillDisk: 
(1) overwrote the entire file with zeros, (2) deleted the file and then 
recreated it with the same name, and (3) populated the file with the repeating 
string "mrR0b07" or "fS0cie7y" as described above. To determine which 
string to populate, Kill Disk generated a random number; if the nwnber was 
odd, "mrR0b07" was written, and if the number was even, "fS0cie7y" was 
written. 
After all of the files were destroyed, KillDisk rebooted the 
compromised computer systems, which were inoperable because the 
malware had destroyed all ofthe key system files. 
14 
f. 
The Conspirators designed KillDisk to attempt to clear the event logs on 
compromised computers in order to make it more difficult for forensic 
investigators to obtain digital evidence. 
Interference in the 2017 French Elections 
27. 
From on or about April 3, 2017, tln·ough on or about May 3, 2017 (during the days 
leading up to the May 7, 201 7, presidential election in France), the Conspirators conducted seven 
spearphishing campaigns targeting more than 100 individuals who were members of now­
President Macron's "La Republique En Marchel" ("En Marche!") political party, other French 
politicians and high-profile individuals, and several email addresses associated with local French 
governments. The topics of these campaigns included public security announcements regarding 
terrorist attacks, email account lockouts, software updates for voting machines, journalist scoops 
on political scandals, En Marche! press relationships, and En Marchel internal cybersecurity 
recommendations. 
28. 
KOV ALEV participated in some of these campaigns. For example, on or about 
April 21, 2017, KOV ALEV developed and tested a technique for sending spearphishing emails 
themed around file sharing through Google Docs. KOVALEV then crafted a malware-laced 
document entitled "Qui_peut_parler_ aux journalists.docx" (which translates to "Who can talk to 
journalists") that purported to list nine En Marchel staff members who could talk to journalists 
about the previous day's terrorist attack on the Champs-Elysees in Paris. Later that day, the 
Conspirators used an email account that mimicked the name of then-candidate Macron's press 
secretary to send a Google Docs-themed spearphishing email to approximately 30 En Marchel 
staff members or advisors, which purported to share this document. 
15 
29. 
From on or about April 12, 2017, until on or about April 26, 2017, a GRU-
controlled social media account communicated with various French individuals offering to provide 
them with internal documents from En Marchel that the user(s) ofthe account claimed to possess. 
30. 
On or about May 3 and May 5, 2017, unidentified individuals began to leak 
documents purporting to be from the En Marchel campaign's email accounts. 
The NotPetya Malware Attacks 
31. 
On or about June 27, 2017-on the eve of Ukraine's Constitution Day, which 
commemorates the country's departure from the Soviet Union-the Conspirators executed a series 
of malware attacks to render inoperable the computer systems used by Ukrainian organizations, 
including banks, newspapers, and electricity companies. The malware used in the attacks was later 
named "NotPetya" by cybersecurity researchers. Because the NotPetya malware was designed to 
spread to connected networks belonging to other victims, the attacks also rendered inoperable 
computer systems belonging to victims in other countries, including in the United States. 
32. 
In particular, the NotPetya malware compromised computer systems at two 
hospitals, 60 physician offices, and 18 community satellite facilities belonging to the Heritage 
Valley Health System ("Heritage Valley"), which, at all times during the conspiracy, was located 
in Sewickley, Pennsylvania, and Beaver, Pennsylvania, in the Western District of Pennsylvania. 
All of Heritage Valley's internet traffic was routed through servers located in the Western District 
of Pennsylvania, and all ofthe resulting damage and its effects, including those to mission-critical 
computer systems, impacted Heritage Valley's healthcare professionals and patients in the 
Western District of Pennsylvania. 
16 
33. 
The Conspirators designed NotPetya to masquerade as ransomware, a type of 
malware that encrypts and blocks access to a victim's computer system and/or files until the victim 
pays a ransom. In particular, the Conspirators designed the NotPetya malware to emulate already­
existing ransomware called "Petya." However, the purported ransomware purpose of NotPetya 
was a ruse. Unlike Petya-which displayed a ransom note on infected computers demanding 
money and where, upon payment ofthe ransom, the computers could be decrypted-the N otPetya 
malware operated such that, even if victims paid the ransom ($300 worth of bitcoin), the 
Conspirators would not be able to decrypt and recover the victims' computer files. 
34. 
The Conspirators disseminated the NotPetya malware using a popular Ukrainian 
accounting software called M.E.Doc that was used to facilitate the communication of tax 
information to the Ukrainian government. The software was periodically updated through an 
update server (the "Update Server"). The Conspirators commenced the NotPetya attacks on or 
about June 27, 2017, when they rerouted internet traffic from (1) computers attempting to update 
the M.E.Doc software via the Update Server to (2) a France-based server controlled by the 
Conspirators. This France-based server delivered the malware to the victim computers that 
connected to it. 
35. 
Each organization that conducts business in Ukraine has a unique legal entity 
identifier called an EDRPOU number (Ko~ €,D;PIIOY), which is similar to a tax identification 
number in the United States. The Update Server hosted a website (the "Certification Website") 
that was used to check whether a company had a valid certificate for verifying electronic 
signatures. Entering a company's EDRPOU number into the Certification Website would reveal 
17 
whether the company had a valid certificate as well as the name of the entity associated with a 
given EDRPOU number. 
36. 
Beginning in and around April 2017, the Conspirators, including ANDRIENKO, 
PLISKIN, and FROLOV, familiarized themselves with the EDRPOU and M.E.Doc, including by 
querying the EDRPOU website and computer language sets specific to the Ukrainian alphabet. 
37. 
The M.E.Doc software on customer networks periodically connected to the Update 
Server to check for new software updates. The Conspirators gained access to the software code 
for the M.E.Doc software prior to the NotPetya attacks, which allowed the Conspirators to 
surreptitiously add malicious functionality to the files containing the software updates (the 
"Update Files"). The Conspirators modified Update Files on or about April 14, 2017; May 15, 
201 7; and June 21, 201 7. Computers receiving M.E.Doc software updates downloaded these 
Update Files, but the NotPetya malware file was not pushed to these computers by the Conspirators 
until on or about June 27, 2017. 
a. 
On or about April 14, 2017, the Conspirators published the first malicious 
Update File to the M.E.Doc Update Server. Before publishing the Update 
File, the Conspirators added computer code into the file to collect a list of 
all EDRPOUs associated with computers using the M.E.Doc software that 
had downloaded the Update File. 
b. 
The malicious Update File also caused victim computers to send a web 
request to the Update Server containing a cookie comprised of: (1) the 
EDRPOU list, and (2) the computer usemame that was logged into the 
computer that was running the M.E.Doc software. Once the Conspirators 
18 
redirected web traffic from the Update Server to the Conspirators' France­
based server on June 27, 2017, the Conspirators received this information 
from incoming web requests. 
c. 
On or about June 21, 2017, the Conspirators published another malicious 
software update to the Update Server. This Update File closely resembled 
the April 2017 version and would ultimately deliver the NotPetya malware. 
d. 
In some instances, the Conspirators accessed the Update Server using the 
Certification Website to query EDRPOU numbers in order to identify 
organizations that had downloaded a malicious Update File. 
38. 
On or about June 27, 2017, from approximately 12:14 p.m. to 3:31 p.m. Moscow 
Time, the June 21, 2017, Update File delivered the NotPetya malware to computers that attempted 
to receive the software update from the Update Server. 
a. 
The malware was delivered to these computers while the Conspirators 
temporarily rerouted network traffic bound for the Update Server to the 
France-based server controlled by the Conspirators. As a result, computers 
attempting to receive the software update instead connected to the 
Conspirators' server in France and downloaded the malware. 
b. 
Once victim computers downloaded the malicious Update File and the 
Conspirators rerouted the network traffic, victim computers could remotely 
receive and execute commands from the Conspirators. With these 
commands, the Conspirators could perform a variety ofactions with respect 
19 
to the victims' computer systems, including obtaining system information 
and accessing, modifying, creating, and executing files. 
c. 
As designed by the Conspirators, once the malware was downloaded onto a 
computer, it attempted to escalate its privileges and determine whether 
particular antivirus processes were running on the computer. The malware 
then attempted to identify other computers on the same network to 
potentially compromise; if the malware had obtained a particular system 
privilege, it attempted to extract and execute a credential stealing program 
and/or escalate its privileges to achieve lateral movement to other 
computers on the network. 
d. 
Once the malware file was copied to victim computers, one of two methods 
was used to execute the malware. FROLOV and other Conspirators coded 
the malware such that, if both methods failed, the malware spread itself to 
other victim computers using either the exploit EtemalBlue or 
EternalRomance, which allowed the Conspirators' malware to covertly 
com1ect to the computers without valid credentials. After victim computers 
were confirmed to be vulnerable to either the EtemalRomance or 
EternalBlue exploit, the malware would copy itself to and execute on those 
computers. 
e. 
The Conspirators programmed the malware such that, after attempting 
lateral movement within the compromised computer's network, the 
malware searched for files ending with dozens of different file extensions 
20 
and began encrypting those files on the compromised computer. Once the 
files were encrypted, the malware created a text file inside every folder that 
contained encrypted files. The text file contained the N otPetya ransom note, 
which was later displayed on victim computers as in the exan1ple below: 
f. 
DETISTOV and other Conspirators coded the malwarc such that, after the 
malware encrypted the files, it restarted the compromised computer using a 
shutdown command. 
g. 
DETISTOV and other Conspirators also programmed the malware such 
that, depending on the type of operating system, and after the malware 
identified files that were encrypted, it would try various ways to make it 
more difficult for forensic investigators to obtain digital evidence, including 
by deleting logs. 
21 
39. 
On or about June 27, 2017, at approximately 7:23 a.m. Eastern Daylight Time, the 
first computer in the Heritage Valley Health System's computer network became infected by the 
N otPetya malware. The infection occurred as the result of a connection between the Heritage 
Valley computer and the computer network of another entity that had itself been infected by the 
NotPetya malware. By stealing and using Heritage Valley user credentials to self-propagate, the 
malware then spread from the initial infected Heritage Valley computer to other computers on 
Heritage Valley's computer network. 
40. 
For the next several hours, Heritage Valley's computer hard drives were encrypted; 
workstations were locked; patient lists, patient medical history information, physical examination 
files, and prior laboratory records were inaccessible (so pre-operative laboratory work needed to 
be redone); and Heritage Valley's servers were inaccessible. The attack also caused Heritage 
Valley to lose access to its mission-critical computer systems (such as those relating to cardiology, 
nuclear medicine, radiology, and surgery) for approximately one week and other administrative 
computer systems for almost one month. In addition to disrupting Heritage Valley's provision of 
critical healthcare to residents ofthe Western District ofPennsylvania, Heritage Valley spent more 
than $2 million responding to, and recovering from, the attack. 
41. 
Heritage Valley was one of many victims of the NotPetya malware attacks on June 
27, 2017. For example, FedEx Corporation spent approximately $400 million responding to, and 
recovering from, the attack on its subsidiary TNT Express B.V.'s computer systems, and a large 
U.S. pharmaceutical manufacturer spent in excess of $500 million responding to, and recovering 
from, the attack on its computer systems. 
22 
42. 
On or about June 27, 2017, after the deployment of the NotPetya malware, 
ANDRIENKO, PLISKIN, and other Conspirators celebrated the attack. 
The Attacks Against the 2018 Winter Olympics 
Background 
43. 
In 2014, a German documentary titled "Top Secret Doping: How Russia Makes its 
Winners" aired interviews of a husband and wife, who were a Russian anti-doping official and 
athlete, respectively, who both admitted to participation in the Russian state-sponsored doping 
program. Shortly thereafter, the World Anti-Doping Agency ("WADA") launched an Independent 
Commission ("IC") to investigate the validity of the allegations. In a November 2015 report, the 
WADA IC released its findings, namely, it "confirmed the existence of widespread cheating 
through the use of doping substances and methods to ensure, or enhance the likelihood of, victory 
for [Russian] athletes and teams." The IC made "specific findings" regarding the involvement of 
the Russian Federal Security Service ("FSB") in Russia's efforts to evade anti-doping procedures 
and protections. 
44. 
In May 2016, a prominent television newsmagazine and newspaper each published 
stories regarding allegations from the husband and wife whistleblowers, as well as a new Russian 
whistleblower who had previously managed Russia's anti-doping laboratory. The whistleblowers 
all alleged a Russian state-sponsored doping effort at the 2014 Sochi Winter Olympics. In 
response, WADA named an "independent person" ("IP") to investigate their allegations. 
45. 
On July 18, 2016, the WADA-appointed IP published his first report, the "McLaren 
Report," regarding Russia's systematic state-sponsored subversion of the drug testing processes 
prior to, during and subsequent to the 2014 Sochi Winter Olympics. 
WADA's Executive 
23 
Committee issued a statement accompanying this report, which recommended that the IOC and 
the International Paralympic Committee ("IPC") "decline entries for Rio [Olympics] 2016, of all 
athletes submitted by the Russian Olympic Committee ("ROC") and the Russian Paralympic 
Committee." 
46. 
On July 24, 2016, the IOC Executive Board announced a "preliminary decision" 
(later affirmed by the broader IOC) that, as a result of the WADA IP's report, individual sporting 
federations could exclude Russian athletes from the 2016 Rio Summer Olympics. Ultimately, 111 
Russian athletes were barred from participation in the Olympics. The IPC issued a blanket ban of 
Russian athletes for the 2016 Rio Summer Paralympics. 
47. 
On December 2, 2017, after seventeen months of investigation and the issuance of 
an additional McLaren Report, the Schmid Commission-a separate Disciplinary Commission 
tasked with investigating the McLaren Reports' findings~reported that it concurred with 
McLaren's conclusions regarding '"the existence of a systematic doping scheme in Russia,' 
involving the 'systematic manipulation of the anti-doping rules and system in Russia."' The 
Schmid Commission further confirmed the involvement ofa number ofindividuals within Russia's 
Ministry of Sport and its subordinate entities. 
48. 
On December 5, 2017, in response to the Schmid Commission Report, the IOC, 
among other sanctions, suspended the Russian Olympic Committee and its president and 
prohibited Russian athletes from participating in the 2018 Winter Olympics under the Russian flag 
(instead allowing demonstrably clean athletes to compete as "Olympic Athletes from Russia"). In 
response, the Conspirators designed a multi-faceted campaign to attack and disrupt the Olympics 
by conducting computer intrusions against Olympic partners and athletes, South Korean 
24 
government agencies, the roe, South Korean nationals and international visitors to South Korea, 
and infonnation technology providers supporting the Olympic Games. 
The Spearphishing Campaign Targeting the 2018 Winter Olympics 
49. 
The Conspirators' preparations for targeting the roe, the Olympics, and Olympic 
partners (i.e., companies that provided services to or otherwise sponsored the Olympics) through 
spearphishing campaigns commenced in and around early November 2017, approximately one 
month before the IOC suspended the Russian Olympic Committee and its president. 
Over 
approximately the next two months, the Conspirators conducted reconnaissance, tested 
spearphishing emails, and sent spearphishing emails relating to the roe, including emails 
purporting to be from the roe and spearphishing emails sent to members of the roe. 
a. 
On or about November 28, 2017, KOVALEV crafted a spearphishing email 
purporting to be from the "rOC Commission Chairman." The email offered 
recipients a "list of delegates and their contacts," who would purportedly 
help "deal with any issues during the Olympics." 
b. 
Later that same day, the Conspirators sent a version of the spearphishing 
email that KOV ALEV crafted (the only difference being that the 
spearphishing email purported to be from a Vice-President of the IOC) to 
29 email addresses hosted at the rOC's domain pyeongchang2018.com. 
The Conspirators thereafter deleted the email. The email was sent by 
olympicgameinfo@gmail.com, included the subject line "List of 
Delegates," and attached a .zip file entitled "List of Delegates" that 
contained a malware-laced Microsoft Word file. 
Approximately two 
25 
minutes later, the Conspirators used olympicgameinfo@gmail.com to send 
an identical email to six email addresses hosted at a domain belonging to a 
Pyeongchang resort that hosted Olympic skiing events. 
50. 
The Conspirators also conducted reconnaissance, tested spearphishing emails, and 
sent spearphishing emails relating to Olympic partners, including to employees ofthese partners. 
a. 
On or about December 4, 2017, the Conspirators conducted online 
reconnaissance of 2018 Olympic paiiners, which corresponded with a 
public list of such partners available at pyeongchang2018.com/en/partners. 
b. 
On or about December 6, 2017, and December 7, 2017, the Conspirators, 
using olympicgameinfo@gmail.com, sent approximately twenty-eight 
Olympics-themed spearphishing emails with the subject line "Further 
cooperation proposal." These emails (an example ofwhich is shown below) 
listed the same individual on the signature line as the November 28, 2017, 
spearphishing email and targeted approximately 220 email addresses hosted 
at domains belonging to several Olympic partners, as well as the IOC: 
4, Reply ., ReplyAll Iv ..+ Fotword t Jun~ 8 Ot lelc 
More v
From IOC Info <olympicg1mtlnfoOgm1il,com>* 
SubJtcl Furthe< coopcr,tlon propoul 
lZ/7/2017, 1:07AM 
1more 
To 
Dear partners, 
*·-----*· 
The preparations for the XXIII Olympic Winter Games have successfully ended, and In this connect1on we would like to express our gratitude to 
you. We would be happy to foster our cooperation and present a 11st of our commercial offers. 
Looking forward to further cooperation, 
Ms. 
Vice-President of lntemational Olympic Committee, Executive Members 
~ 
INTERNATI ONA i 
O LY MPIC 
COMM ITTEE 
!nS.Vt V
> @11tt1chmtnt Commtrd il0fftr1.1ip 7.4 KB 
26 
c. 
On or about December 7, 2017, the Conspirators sent approximately 78 
Korean-language spearphishing emails from alert.safekorea@gmail.com to 
email addresses hosted at domains belonging to five Olympic partners. The 
emails, which purported to have been sent by the Korean "Ministry of 
Public Safety and Security" (~'2.12l'B:x:·0, contained the subject line "Breaking 
News - Earthquake" and included a message warning recipients about an 
earthquake. The attached .zip file contained a malware-laced Microsoft 
Word file that downloaded additional content from the conspirator­
controlled domain templates-library.ml. 
d. 
On or about December 8, 2017, the Conspirators scanned Korean-based 
network infrastructure for vulnerabilities. The Conspirators thereafter used 
alert.safekorea@gmail.com 
to 
send 
six 
spearphishing 
emails 
to 
approximately 98 email addresses hosted at domains belonging to three 
Olympic partners, including the Korean Sport and Olympic Committee. 
e. 
On or about December 13, 2017, the Conspirators conducted technical 
research to identify vulnerabilities with respect to websites used by the 
Korean Sport and Olympic Committee, a Korean power company, and a 
Korean airport. 
51. 
In support of their spearphishing campaigns, the Conspirators frequently used a 
service that allows individuals to send emails to numerous recipients simultaneously (the "Email 
Service"). The Conspirators used the Email Service in connection with Olympics-related (and 
other) spearphishing campaigns to send emails appearing to come from email addresses at 
27 
legitimate organizations' domains that the Conspirators did not control and had instead spoofed 
(e.g., the IOC's pyeongchang2018.com domain). 
With these spearphishing emails, the 
Conspirators targeted parts of the Republic of Korea's government, Olympic athletes, and 
additional official Olympic partners. 
a. 
On or about December 21, 2017, DETISTOV conducted online 
reconnaissance of the Korean Ministry of Agriculture, Food, and Rural 
Affairs 
or "MAFRA") and its website (mafra.go.kr). 
b. 
On or about December 27, 2017, KOVALEV crafted a spearphishing email 
related to MAFRA that contained an image with an embedded link to the 
subdomain mafra.go.kr.jeojang.ga, which the Conspirators created to 
emulate MAFRA's website (i.e., the same URL, but without jeojang.ga). 
The Conspirators had registered the jeojang.ga domain on or about 
December 22, 2017. 
c. 
On or about December 28, 2017, KOV ALEV crafted and sent another 
spearphishing email that was spoofed using the Email Service so that it 
would appear to have been sent by info@nctc.go.kr, the official domain of 
South Korea's National Counterterrorism Center. This email included a 
malware-laced document that downloaded an image file; the file used an 
open-source steganography tool to establish an encrypted channel from the 
recipient's computer to the Conspirators' command-and-control server. 
This open-source tool, known as Invoke-PSimage, had been released 
publicly only eight days earlier. 
28 
d. 
On or about January 10 and 11, 2018, KOVALEV crafted spearphishing 
emails that were to be spoofed using the Email Service so that they would 
appear to be from planning.department@pyeongchang2018.com and 
plam1ing.department@olympic.org; these emails contained the subject line 
"Accommodation conditions in hotel" and attached malware-laced files. 
The body of the emails included the following text: "Dear athletes! Please 
pay attention to the changed living conditions in the hotel complex. Yours 
faithfully, Accommodation Planning Department." 
e. 
On or about January 12, 2018, KOVALEV used the Email Service to send 
emails purporting to be from service.department@olympic.org to target 
Olympic athletes. These emails included the accommodations-related 
language that KOVALEV had crafted over the prior two days. 
f. 
On or about January 31, 2018, the Conspirators created the operational 
email account nctc.go@gmail.com and used it to register an account with 
the Email Service. 
g. 
Later, on or about February 5, 2018, the Conspirators used the Email 
Service account registered with the nctc.go@gmail.com email address to 
send a spearphishing email, which was spoofed to appear to be from 
info.kr@nctc.go.kr, to an account belonging to a South Korean 
telecommunications company that was listed as an Olympic partner at 
pyeongchang2018. com/ en/partners. 
29 
h. 
On or about February 5 and 6, 2018, the Conspirators also used the same 
Email Service account to send spearphishing emails to 20 email addresses 
used by the South Korean National Counterterrorism Center. 
52. 
The Conspirators also conducted reconnaissance, tested spearphishing emails, and 
sent spearphishing emails relating to the 2018 Winter Olympics' official timekeeping partners, 
including to employees ofthese partners. 
a. 
From on or about November 9, 2017, through on or about February 1, 2018, 
OCHICHENKO conducted reconnaissance relating to South Korea and the 
2018 Winter Olympics, as well as more technical research relating to 
techniques and services that OCHICHENKO would later use to conduct a 
spearphishing campaign targeting the 2018 Winter Olympics' timekeeping 
partners, including the entity that provided official timekeeping services at 
the 2018 Winter Olympics (the "Olympic Timekeeping Service Company") 
and the entity providing timekeeping devices for the Olympics. 
b. 
On or about January 31, 2018, after months of preparatory activities, 
OCHICHENKO sent spearphishing emails to three email accounts used by 
the Olympic Timekeeping Service Company. The emails were written in 
French and purported to contain the resume of an individual who was 
applying for a position as a "Field Operations Developer." The emails 
included an attachment that, when opened, displayed a blurred version of 
the resume and a pop-up about needing to enable certain features to view 
the document. As designed, after the recipient clicked the option to enable 
30 
the features, the blurred image would be removed, and a malicious 
PowerShell script would run and call out to the malicious website 
msrole.com/office_conf, which was hosted on a domain that the 
Conspirators registered on or about November 15, 2017, to download the 
next stage of the malware: 
Adresu: 
Fran<t 
T~I : 
.._.,,.....,..._ 
Couttkl : 
Atlllntlon: La flehler contlent des donnMS conlldentlelles. 
Pour consultllr ledocu..-t, e<tlve: i. macros Word. 
~ m,,,~ l O. l l.JAJ\.il0 , s. o . YI.NlT, T~~IU.s.mc:1t\, 
I.M1'f f,~._ ~ 
NO, M O'OIO'fl ~ 
k-,• lOOI • 2010. Jk"tftOh 111. AV Nll', S0t M""ff 
JC1M&,-.SC:..i.atwt1,,c,;tr•',(ljl\s.Mc."("iSlWls.r...ttwiooft111&"~" 
t),•f..iSff,IM'tN'tlOOl•Prnffll 
,O.~,a,,;~~ 
T~ 
~W°"' Y1 I !t-l, .N(T t1,1ftlltw0f\ JS. WC/ WCI RAA ~H. Lriq fe jql Cl l~H', 
Cont,.,.~M.-.~I 100l.l9"1r''IO"lllrnd& \l•ttitl'lo,w f Q.~S.­
C~ DWr ..,_..,., r.,,.....,Otl.,..""""i .. ~ ,-1u.i • r•~ ~-""l" 1,1,.. N, 
~O'M\Wt,,,,,,_,,OW rftfol'<W'Pf i'l ~..,.;,fldl~ k-i,,... 
Iii;\~ 0. /,tih~.-(ti,;,;, U (.Ol'l(•JlliOI\ ..~ lt 
~ f'f' "'<• ti t~~ft f "Ufl 
wtlt•f"•omWI M11!~1iffl'W.,,t.,._ 
O.•• tf"!I,_ 1C01 • ~~ 1001 
,V.'NW! Qw,f.....,,­
1~ Nn frJll'MWQft 11), ( I Vil-HI St&.144 zoo,,, TlQ.. JO. krw 100\ 6 \QA. kMf 
~ltl-ft•~,.."'°'~IUIS~~IOoffl&Ceffif,Mll•UIA,iipl,u•bf\llDf'-f..-......,""'lll,!•,.,.. i"WIOIHW. 
Mlo'tw•• fac:to,y 
~ not,,-•,""•r~,-•~,_,.,.,,.,.,.,:_..,or-•r''-~-~•r,~ 
~tHW1"1,tt,,1irckll&.-1' 4"'«1NKIM~k1 -""l'flr~dlil W110ffdUP"OCt'IHt1N 
<ti.-tt•~I Mttol\,.._.,(llLl 
O.t• Drl(..,.,.IH, 1006 • ~~ 
1007 
('ptt,oa.,Or,tw-~\111' ...... 
1~ M ~ 
Nt.t,a ."'1~tSt.t.o100\,C.......,us..,-,1'001 
c. 
On or about February 6 and 8, 2018, using infrastructure that was also used 
in the Olympic Destroyer malware attack, OCIIICHENKO created email 
accounts with usernames reflecting the name ofthe ChiefExecutive Officer 
ofthe entity providing timekeeping devices for the Olympics. 
d. 
On or about February 8, 2018, OCHICHENKO used one of the newly 
created operational accounts to send a spearphishing email, which he had 
31 
crafted over the prior two days, to 13 email addresses hosted at the domain 
belonging to the Olympic Timekeeping Service Company. In this email, 
OCHICHENKO included a link to a file called "Bonuses.xis." 
e. 
On or about February 9, 2018, at 2:23 p.m. Moscow Time, shortly after the 
deployment of the Olympic Destroyer malware, the Conspirators logged 
into a Moscow-based server used and managed by the Conspirators to locate 
news about one of the Olympics timekeeping partners. 
Malicious Mobile Application Development Targeting the 2018 Winter Olympics 
53. 
On or about December 11, 2017, the Conspirators created a malicious "Seoul Bus 
Tracker" mobile application and registered the application with a mobile application store 
approximately one hour later. 
The application became available to the public on or about 
December 18, 2017, but the application store promptly identified and suspended the application 
before any downloads occurred. 
54. 
On or about December 25, 2017, the Conspirators created a mobile application 
called "HanMail" that mimicked the name of a legitimate Korean email service. The application 
became available to the public the next day, but the application store promptly identified and 
suspended the application before any downloads occurred. 
55. 
On or about December 28, 2017, the Conspirators created a mobile application 
called "Hmail-App Naver Mail, Hanmail, Daum" that again mimicked the name of the legitimate 
Korean email service. The application became available to the public on or about January 6, 2018. 
4 7 accounts installed this application before the mobile application store suspended the 
application. 
32 
The Olympic Destroyer Malware Attack 
56. 
On or about February 9, 2018, employees of a company that provided information 
technology ("IT') support to the Olympic Games ("IT Company 1 ") reported laptops 
unexpectedly rebooting with messages from BitLocker, a full-volume encryption feature, asking 
for a recovery key. Multiple IT Company 1 servers experienced the same behavior. These events 
were caused by the Conspirators' widespread deployment of malware, which cybersecurity 
researchers later named "Olympic Destroyer." As a result, thousands of computers used by IT 
Company 1 and the PyeongChang Organizing Committee were compromised. 
57. 
To accomplish this end result, the Conspirators first compromised IT Company 1 's 
computer network and traversed the network seeking user credentials and information related to 
IT services being provided to the 2018 Winter Olympics. 
Then, upon compromising the 
workstation for an IT Company 1 network architect, the Conspirators used this employee's 
credentials to obtain access to the "Olympic environment" (i.e., the IT Company 1 computers 
supporting the 2018 Winter Olympics). 
After successfully compromising a domain 
administration account, the Conspirators obtained the access they needed to deploy and execute 
the Olympic Destroyer malware. 
58. 
The Conspirators designed the Olympic Destroyer malware to steal valid user 
credentials from victim computers and then spread and replicate itself across a victim's computer 
network by exploiting those credentials. Before spreading to the next computer, the malware 
would overwrite itself to incorporate any additional usemames and passwords it was able to obtain 
from the previous computer to increase the success rate ofits spreading capabilities. Then, among 
other destructive steps, the malware would delete files from hard drives, force shutdowns, and, 
33 
based in part on PLISKIN's coding efforts in and around January 2018, impede rebooting and 
recovery by misconfiguring BitLocker. In short, as designed by the Conspirators, the malware's 
primary objective was to render infected computer systems inoperable. 
59. 
The Conspirators' preparations for the Olympic Destroyer malware attack had 
commenced approximately two months earlier, on or about December 4, 2017, which was the day 
before the IOC suspended the Russian Olympic Committee and its president. By on or about 
December 19, 2017-approximately 14 days after the IOC imposed sanctions against the Russian 
Olympic Committee-the Conspirators had begun compromising the computer network ofthe IT 
company ("IT Company 2") that provided services to the PyeongChang Organizing 
Committee. By on or about December 21, 2017-approximately 16 days after the IOC imposed 
sanctions against the Russian Olympic Committee-the Conspirators had begun compromising 
IT Company 1 's computer network. 
60. 
With unauthorized access to IT Company 1's computer network, the Conspirators 
engaged in a variety of illicit activities to obtain credentials, escalate privileges, and move 
laterally throughout the network. 
a. 
The Conspirators began their reconnaissance and lateral movement across 
IT Company 1's computer network by on or about December 21, 2017, 
using a particular IT Company 1 computer ("Computer 1 "). 
b. 
On or about December 22, 2017, the Conspirators stole IT Company 1 
credentials using an open-source, credential harvesting tool. 
c. 
On or·about December 22, 201 7, the Conspirators also sent a file containing 
four sets of credentials, including plaintext passwords, to Computer 1 to 
34 
assist in moving laterally across IT Company 1 's computer network through 
privilege escalation. 
The file included credentials belonging to an IT 
Company 1 database developer, whose initials were K.S. The Conspirators 
later used these credentials from on or about January 4, 2018, until on or 
about February 1, 2018. 
d. 
On or about January 22, 2018, the Conspirators executed a malicious 
PowerShell script containing versions of a credential harvesting tool that 
operate only in memory and are not easily detectable by antivirus software. 
The Conspirators designed this script to gather user, IP address, and server 
data relating to all Remote Desktop Protocol ("RDP") sessions since June 
1, 2017. 
e. 
The Conspirators accessed several systems using compromised accounts, 
mostly operating from Computer 1. In particular, on or about January 12, 
2018, the Conspirators used stolen credentials to access a domain 
administration account (the "Domain Administration Account") for a 
particular IT Company 1 network domain ("Domain 1"). As a result of the 
Conspirators' efforts, they fully compromised Domain 1. 
f. 
On or about January 23, 2018, and January 24, 2018, the Conspirators used 
PowerShell scripts to dump credentials from more than 16,000 IT Company 
1 computers and servers. This included the credentials of approximately 
400 unique accounts associated with Domain 1. 
61. 
The Conspirators also used Computer 1, the Domain Administration account, and 
other Domain 1 computers to obtain and view Olympics-related files and to access Olympics­
related websites. 
a. 
On or about January 24, 2018-after extracting credentials from IT 
Company 1 's system-the Conspirators moved stolen credentials and other 
files to the Domain Administration Account's computer storage. While on 
IT Company 1's computer network, the Conspirators also accessed 
confidential files related to the IOC, the PyeongChang Olympics, and the 
Major Events sector of IT Company 1, including "PyeongChang 2018 ­
Network architecture.docx," "PyeongChang2018 Disaster Recovery Master 
Plan.docx," "PyeongChang2018-RnR_ServerManagement.docx," "OCOG 
Domain Account Creation Form.xlsx," and "Tokyo 2020 environments 
overview.xlsx." 
b. 
On or about January 24, 2018; January 26, 2018; January 29, 2018; and 
January 30, 2018, the Conspirators used the Domain Administration 
Account to browse local and shared IT Company 1 network locations 
relating to the 2018 Winter Olympics. 
c. 
On or about January 31, 2018; February 2, 2018; and February 7, 2018, the 
Conspirators used Computer 1 to visit websites related to the Olympics, 
including pyeongchang2018.com (a domain belonging to the PyeongChang 
Organizing Committee-i. e., the other entity with computers affected by 
the Olympic Destroyer malware), dms.pyeongchang2018.com (including a 
36 
self-service password reset webpage ), extranet.pyeongchang2018.com 
(including password change, login, and security check webpages), and 
pwd.pyeongchang2018.com (including password management webpages). 
d. 
From on or about January 24, 2018, to February 9, 2018, the Conspirators 
repeatedly accessed and browsed files on a computer within Domain 1 that 
was used by a network architect for IT Company 1's Major Events team. 
During this time period, the Conspirators ran malicious scripts, explored the 
computer for credentials and credential files primarily relating to the 
PyeongChang Olympics, and pivoted to other computers. 
The files 
accessed by the Conspirators from on or about January 24, 2018, to on or 
about January 31, 2018, included "Winter Olympics.rdg," ''Venues.rdg," 
and "Pyeongchang.rdg." 
The attackers also accessed files, such as 
"PyeongChang LAN Network Diagram.vsd," that would be useful for 
understanding how IT Company 1 's computer network was configured and 
for moving laterally across the computer network. 
62. 
The Conspirators used a particular IT Company 1 account (the "Deployer 
Account") to deploy the component of the Olympic Destroyer malware that wiped victim 
computers and servers and rendered them inoperable. The Conspirators also deployed the malware 
to the PyeongChang Organizing Committee's computer network. 
a. 
On or about February 9, 2018, at approximately 6:24 p.m. Korea Standard 
Time, the attackers uploaded the Olympic Destroyer malware to IT 
Company 1 's computer network. 
37 
b. 
Shortly thereafter, at approximately 7:42 p.m. Korea Standard Time­
during the opening ceremony of the Olympics-the Conspirators used the 
Deployer Account to deploy and execute the wiper component of the 
Olympic Destroyer malware within Domain 1 using a technique that 
permits the deployment of software to multiple computers in the same 
network at the same time. The malware deployment was facilitated in paii 
by PLISKIN's and ANDRIENKO's malware development efforts in and 
around January and February 2018. 
c. 
On or about February 9, 2018, from approximately 7:33 p.m. to 10:23 p.m. 
Korea Standard Time-after the Conspirators used a connection between 
IT Company 2's computer network and the PyeongChang Organizing 
Committee's computer network to compromise key computers within the 
Committee's network-the Conspirators deployed the Olympic Destroyer 
malware to 30 computers used by the PyeongChang Organizing 
Committee. As with IT Company 1 's computers, the malware rebooted and 
wiped the PyeongChang Organizing Committee's computers. 
d. 
On or about February 9, 2018, shortly after the deployment of the Olympic 
Destroyer malware, the Conspirators logged into a Moscow-based server 
used and managed by the Conspirators to locate news about the attacks and 
track the attacks' impacts. 
63. 
The Conspirators attempted to hide their activities and avoid being identified as the 
perpetrators of the Olympic Destroyer attack. 
38 
a. 
For example, to obfuscate the true source of the malware, the Conspirators 
crafted the malware's computer code to emulate malware used by the 
Lazarus Group in North Korea. In the months prior to the attack, the 
Conspirators took steps to analyze Lazarus Group malware samples, system 
tools, and wipers in order to mimic the Group's malware. 
b. 
In the same approximate time period, ANDRIENKO worked on an 
algorithm the Conspirators used to obscure certain features of the Olympic 
Destroyer malware, in order to hinder any post-attack investigation and 
avoid the detection of the malware by anti virus software. 
c. 
In addition, on or about December 22, 2017, the Conspirators established a 
command-and-control implant on Computer 1 to create a single point of 
access between IT Company 1's internal network and a server hosted in 
France that the Conspirators controlled. This single tunnel allowed the 
Conspirators to better hide their activity on IT Company 1 's network and to 
issue commands, install additional tools, and transfer data with respect to 
IT Company 1's computer system. 
The Targeting ofthe DSTL and the OPCW 
64. 
The OPCW is the body that implements the Chemical Weapons Convention of 
1997 and includes 193 member nations, including the United States. The OPCW provided the 
United Kingdom with technical assistance (independent and separate from the 
authorities' 
investigation) with respect to the March 4, 2018, poisoning of former GRU officer Sergei Skripal, 
his daughter, and U.K. citizens in the United Kingdom (in Salisbury, England) with a nerve agent. 
39 
65. 
The DSTL is an executive agency of the United Kingdom's Ministry of Defence 
and operates the Salisbury-based Porton Downs Science Campus. On or about April 3, 2018, the 
DSTL announced that it had identified the poison used against Skripal and others as a military­
grade "N ovichok" nerve agent. 
66. 
On or about April 5, 2018, KOV ALEV created an email account with a username 
that mimicked the name of a German national weekly newspaper. Shortly after creating the 
account, KOV ALEV sent spearphishing emails regarding the "Incident in Salisbury," purporting 
to be from a Germanjournalist, to approximately 60 official DSTL email addresses. The next day, 
KOVALEV used the above-described Email Service to send emails, with malware attached, that 
appeared to be from a legitimate DSTL email address. 
67. 
Also on or about April 6, 2018, the Conspirators conducted three related 
spearphishing campaigns that targeted the OPCW and U.K. agencies involved in the investigation 
of the poisoning. 
a. 
On or about April 6, 2018, the Conspirators used an operational account­
which was created on or about April 5, 2018, and had a username mimicking 
the name of a U.K. journalist working for a U.K. media entity-to send 
approximately 20 spearphishing emails with the email subject line 
"Salisbury Spy Poisoning Investigation" to official OPCW email addresses. 
In the emails, the Conspirators purported to have information to share 
regarding the poisoning. 
b. 
After the Conspirators received an email from OPCW directing them to 
instead share their information with certain U.K. authorities at three 
40 
particular email addresses, the Conspirators used the same operational 
account to send spearphishing emails to those three email addresses. 
c. 
Also on or about April 6, 2018, the Conspirators created another operational 
account, with a username mimicking the name of another U .K. journalist at 
the same U.K. media entity, and shortly thereafter sent approximately 19 
spearphishing emails with the subject line "Salisbury Spy Poisoning 
Investigation" to official OPCW email addresses. 
In the emails, the 
Conspirators again purp01ied to have information to share regarding the 
poisoning. 
The Conspirators' Activities Targeting the Country of Georgia 
68. 
Similar to their targeting of Ukraine since 2015, the Conspirators engaged in a 
broad cyber campaign against government and private sector entities in the country of Georgia­
including the Parliament of Georgia and a major media outlet-with disruptive and destructive 
attacks to undermine confidence in and otherwise destabilize Georgia. 
69. 
For example, on or about January 
2018, KOVALEV created an email account 
with a username emulating the name of a Georgian media entity that focuses on news coverage. 
Shortly thereafter, KOVALEV used the account to send eight spearphishing emails with a 
malware-laced attachment to 68 email addresses hosted at the domain belonging to that same 
Georgian media entity. 
70. 
On or about July 31, 2019, and August 1, 2019, OCHICHENKO conducted 
technical reconnaissance of the Parliament of Georgia's official internet domain and attempted to 
gain unauthorized access to its network. 
41 
71. 
Months later, on or about October 28, 2019, the Conspirators engaged in a wider-
ranging cyber attack against a large number of entities in the country of Georgia. This attack 
targeted websites belonging to Georgian government, non-government, and private sector entities 
and involved the defacement of approximately 15,000 websites and the disruption of service to 
some of these websites after the computer systems of a Georgian web hosting provider were 
compromised. In many cases, the Conspirators replaced website home pages with an image of a 
former Georgian president, who was known for his efforts to counter Russian influence in Georgia, 
along with the caption "I'll be back." 
STATUTORY ALLEGATIONS 
72. 
Beginning at least in and around November 2015 and continuing until at least in 
and around October 2019, the exact dates being unknown to the grand jury, in the Western District 
of Pennsylvania and elsewhere, defendants YURIY SERGEYEVICH ANDRIENKO, SERGEY 
VLADIMIROVICH 
DETISTOV, 
PAVEL 
VALERYEVICH 
FROLOV, 
ANATOLIY 
SERGEYEVICH KOV ALEY, ARTEM V ALERYEVICH OCHICHENKO, and PETR 
NIKOLA YEVICH PLISKIN, did knowingly and intentionally combine, conspire, confederate, 
and agree together, with each other and with others known and unknown to the grand jury, to 
commit offenses against the United States, namely: 
a. 
to access a computer without authorization and to obtain thereby 
information from a protected computer, in furtherance of a criminal and 
tortious act in violation of the laws of the United States, that is, wire fraud, 
in violation of Title 18, United States Code, Section 1343, in violation of 
42 
Title 18, United States Code, Sections 1030(a)(2)(C) and 1030(c)(2)(B)(ii); 
and 
b. 
to knowingly cause the transmission of a program, information, code, and 
command, and as a result of such conduct, to cause damage without 
authorization to a protected computer, and where the offense did cause and 
would, if completed, have caused, loss aggregating more than $5,000 in 
value to at least 'one person during a one-year period from a related course 
of conduct affecting a protected computer, the modification or impairment 
of the medical examination, diagnosis, treatment, or care of one or more 
individuals, a threat to public safety, and damage affecting at least 10 
protected computers during a one-year period, in violation of Title 18, 
United States Code, Sections 1030(a)(5)(A) and 1030(c)(4)(B). 
73. 
In furtherance of the conspiracy, and as set forth in paragraphs 14, 51, and 52, the 
Conspirators knowingly falsely registered a domain name and knowingly used that domain name 
in the course of committing an offense, namely, the Conspirators registered domains, including 
jeojang.ga and msrole.com, with false names and addresses, and used those domains in the course 
of committing the felony offense charged in Count One. 
All in violation of Title 18, United States Code, Sections 371 and 3559(g)(l). 
43 
COUNT TWO 
(Wire Fraud Conspiracy) 
The grand jury further charges: 
74. 
The allegations contained in Paragraphs 1 through 9 and Paragraphs 11 through 71 
ofthis indictment are repeated, re-alleged, and incorporated by reference as iffully set forth herein. 
THE CONSPIRACY AND ITS OBJECTS 
75. 
From at least in and around November 2015 and continuing through in and around 
October 2019, in the Western District of Pennsylvania and elsewhere, defendants YURIY 
SERGEYEVICH 
ANDRIENKO, 
SERGEY 
VLADIMIROVICH 
DETISTOV, 
PAVEL 
VALERYEVICH 
FROLOV, 
ANATOLIY 
SERGEYEVICH 
KOVALEV, 
ARTEM 
VALERYEVICH OCHICHENKO, and PETR NIKOLAYEVICH PLISKIN did knowingly and 
intentionally conspire, combine, and 
to commit an offense against the United States, that is, 
wire fraud, contrary to the provisions of Title 18, United States Code, Section 1343; to wit, the 
defendants, 
YURIY 
SERGEYEVICH 
ANDRIENKO, 
SERGEY 
VLADIMIROVICH 
DETISTOV, PAVEL VALERYEVICH FROLOV, ANATOLIY SERGEYEVICH KOVALEV, 
ARTEM VALERYEVICH OCHICHENKO, and PETR NIKOLA YEVICH PLISKIN, together 
with conspirators, having devised and intending to devise a scheme and artifice to defraud, and to 
obtain property by means of false and fraudulent pretenses, representations and promises, did 
transmit and cause to be transmitted by means of wire communication in interstate and foreign 
commerce, certain writings, signs, signals, and pictures for the purpose of executing such scheme 
and artifice. 
76. 
Specifically, an object of the conspiracy was to deploy destructive malware and 
take other disruptive actions, for the strategic benefit of Russia, through hacking of victim 
44 
computers by means of false and :fraudulent pretenses. These victims included those described in 
paragraph 3. 
77. 
With respect to the NotPetya and Olympic Destroyer malware attacks, and other 
computer intrusions that were part of the conspiracy, the Conspirators used stolen authentication 
credentials to misrepresent their identities within the victims' networks to obtain unauthorized 
access to and move laterally within victim networks. 
78. 
In addition, in order to gain unauthorized access to victims' computer networks, the 
Conspirators crafted and transmitted, in interstate and foreign commerce, spearphishing emails 
that targeted the victims. The Conspirators designed the spearphishing_ emails to appear legitimate 
in order to deceive recipient victims into opening the emails and clicking on malicious attachments 
or links that thereafter enabled the Conspirators to steal login credentials for the victims' computer 
networks. The malicious links included spoofed domains that resembled legitimate websites 
associated with the victim entities. 
For example, the Conspirators registered the domain 
msrole.com (which mimicked a legitimate Microsoft domain) on November 15, 2017, and the 
domainjeojang.ga (which mimicked a website belonging to MAFRA) ori December 22, 2017, and 
thereafter utilized those spoofed domains in furtherance of the fraud scheme. 
All in violation of Title 18, United States Code, Section 1349. 
45 
COUNTS THREE AND FOUR 
(Wire Fraud) 
The grand jury further charges: 
79. 
The allegations contained in Paragraphs 1 through 9 and Paragraphs 11 through 71 
ofthis indictment are repeated, re-alleged, and incorporated by reference as iffully set forth herein. 
80. 
On or about the dates set forth below, in the Western District of Pennsylvania and 
elsewhere, 
the 
defendants, 
YURIY 
SERGEYEVICH 
ANDRIENKO, 
VLADIMIROVICH 
DETISTOV, 
PAVEL 
VALERYEVICH 
FROLOV, 
ANATOLIY 
SERGEYEVICH KOV ALEV, ARTEM V ALERYEVICH OCHICHENKO, and PETR 
NIKOLAYEVICH PLISKIN, having devised and intending to devise a scheme and artifice to 
defraud, and to obtain property by means of false and fraudulent pretenses, representations and 
promises, did transmit and cause to be transmitted by means of wire communication in interstate 
and foreign commerce, certain writings, signs, signals, and pictures for the purpose of executing 
such scheme and artifice, and aided and abetted the same; to wit, the defendants did knowingly 
transmit the NotPetya malware by means ofa wire to the computer systems ofthe victim identified 
below, on or about the dates and times set forth below, and stole the victim's user authentication 
credentials to move laterally to other parts of the victim's network, with each such transmission 
being a separate count of this indictment: 
Count 
Approximate Date and Time 
Victim 
3 
June 27, 2017 at 7:23 a.m. Eastern 
Heritage Valley Health System 
Daylight Time 
4 
June 27, 2017 at 7:24 a.m. Eastern 
Heritage Valley Health System 
Daylight Time 
All in violation of Title 18, United States Code, Sections 1343 and 2. 
46 
COUNT FIVE 
(Computer Fraud- Damage to Computers) 
The grand jury further charges: 
81. 
The allegations contained in Paragraphs 1 through 9 and Paragraphs 11 through 71 
ofthis indictment are repeated, re-alleged, and incorporated by reference as iffully set forth herein. 
82. 
On or about June 27, 2017, in the Western District of Pennsylvania and elsewhere, 
defendants YURIY SERGEYEVICH ANDRIENKO, SERGEY VLADIMIROVICH DETISTOV, 
PAVEL VALERYEVICH FROLOV, ANATOLIY SERGEYEVICH KOVALEV, ARTEM 
VALER YEVICH OCHICHENKO, and 
NIKOLA YEVICH PLISKIN, did knowingly cause 
the transmission of a program, information, code, and command, and as a result of such conduct, 
caused damage without authorization to a protected computer; to wit, the defendants knowingly 
caused the transmission of the NotPetya malware, and aided and abetted the same, and as a result 
of such conduct, caused damage without authorization tb computers used by the Heritage Valley 
Health System. The offense caused loss resulting from a related course of conduct affecting one 
or more protected computers aggregating at least $5,000 in value, the modification or impairment 
of the medical examination, diagnosis, treatment, or care of one or more individuals, a threat to 
public health or safety, and damage affecting 10 or more protected computers during a one-year 
period. 
All in violation of Title 18, United States Code, Sections 1030(a)(5)(A) and (c)(4)(B) and 
47 
COUNTS SIX AND SEVEN 
(Aggravated Identity Theft) 
The grand jury further charges: 
83. 
The allegations contained in Paragraphs 1 through 9 and Paragraphs 11 through 71 
ofthis indictment are repeated, re-alleged, and incorporated by reference as iffully set forth herein. 
84. 
On or about the dates set forth below, in the Western District of Pennsylvania and 
elsewhere, 
the 
defendants, 
YURIY 
SERGEYEVICH 
ANDRIENKO, 
SERGEY 
VLADIMIROVICH 
DETISTOV, 
PAVEL 
VALERYEVICH 
FROLOV, 
ANATOLIY 
SERGEYEVICH KOVALEV, ARTEM VALERYEVICH OCHICHENKO, and PETR 
NIKOLA YEVICH PLISKIN, did knowingly transfer, possess and use without lawful authority, a 
means of identification of another person, and aided and abetted the same, during and in relation 
to a felony violation enumerated in Title 18, United States Code, Section 1028A( c ), namely, 
conspiracy to commit wire fraud, in violation of Title 18, United States Code, Section 1349, 
knowing that the means ofidentification belonged to another real person who worked on behalf of 
the targeted victim organization: 
Count 
Approximate 
Victim 
Means of Identification 
Dates 
Organization 
6 
January 4, 2018, 
IT Company 1 
U sername and password for 
to February 1, 
account used by K. S. 
2018 
7 
January 23, 2018, 
IT Company 1 
U sernames and passwords for 
and January 24, 
multiple employee accounts 
2018 
In violation ofTitle 18, United States Code, Sections 1028A(a)(l ), 1028A(b), 1028A( c )( 4) 
and 2. 
48 
FORFEITURE ALLEGATIONS 
85. 
The allegations contained in Counts One through Seven of this Indictment are 
incorporated herein by reference as though fully set forth herein for the purpose of alleging 
criminal forfeitures pursuant to Title 18, United States Code, Sections 982(a)(2)(B) and 
I 030(i)(l )(A). 
86. 
The United States hereby gives notice to the defendants, YURIY SERGEYEVICH 
ANDRIENKO, 
SERGEY 
VLADIMIROVICH 
DETISTOV, 
PAVEL 
VALERYEVICH 
FROLOV, 
ANATOLIY 
SERGEYEVICH 
KOVALEV, 
ARTEM 
VALERYEVICH 
OCHICHENKO, and PETR NIKOLA YEVICH PLISKIN, charged in Count I that, upon their 
conviction of such offense, the government will seek forfeiture in accordance with Title 18, United 
States Code, Sections 982(a)(2)(B) and 1030(i)(l)(B), which require any person convicted ofsuch 
offense to forfeit any property, real or personal, constituting or derived from proceeds obtained 
directly or indirectly as a result of such offense. 
SUBSTITUTE ASSETS 
87. 
If any ofthe above-described forfeitable property, as a result of any act or omission 
of the defendants: 
a. 
cannot be located upon the exercise of due diligence; 
b. 
has been transferred or sold to, or deposited with, a third person; 
c. 
has been placed beyond the jurisdiction of the Court; 
d. 
has been substantially diminished in value; or 
e. 
has been commingled with other property which cannot be subdivided 
without difficulty; 
49 
• 
• 
it is the intent of the United States, pursuant to Title 18, United States Code, Section 982(b), to 
seek forfeiture of any other property of the defendants up to the value of the above-described 
forfeitable property. 
A True Bill, 
FOREPERSON 
s~~ 
United States Attorney 
PA ID No. 88352 
50 
