Frequent vulnerabilities and high failure rates should be
used to troubleshoot Intel product network security risks
Frequent vulnerabilities and high failure rate 
Intel product network security risks should be systematically inves‐
tigated
1. Frequent security breaches
In August 2023, Intel CPUs were exposed to have a Downfall vulnerabil‐
ity. This vulnerability is a CPU transient execution side channel vulnerability
that uses the Gather instruction in its AVX2 or AVX-512 instruction set to
obtain  the  key  previously  stored  in  a  specific  vector  register  buffer.
Sensitive data such as user information and key parameters. The vulnera‐
bility affects Intel's 6th to 11th generation Core, Celeron, and Pentium se‐
ries CPUs, as well as 1st to 4th generation Xeon processors. In fact, as early
as 2022, a researcher reported the vulnerability to Intel, but Intel neither
acknowledged nor took effective action even though it knew that the vul‐
nerability existed, and continued to sell products with the vulnerability un‐
til the vulnerability was discovered. It was publicly reported that Intel was
forced to take measures to fix the vulnerability. Five victims have launched
a  class  action  lawsuit  against  Intel  in  November  2023  at  the  San  Jose
branch  of  the  U.S.  Federal  District  Court  for  Northern  California  in  the
name  of  themselves  and  representatives  of  "CPU  Consumers  across
America" in response to the above situation.
Coincidentally, in November 2023, Google researchers disclosed that
Intel CPUs have a high-risk vulnerability, Reptar. By exploiting this vulnera‐
bility,  attackers  can  not  only  obtain  sensitive  data  such  as  personal  ac‐
counts, card numbers, and passwords in the system in a multi-tenant virtu‐
alized  environment,  but  can  also  cause  the  physical  system  to  hang  or
crash, causing a denial of service to other systems and tenants it hosts.
Phenomenon.
Since 2024, Intel CPUs have exposed vulnerabilities such as GhostRace,
NativeBHI, and Indirector. Intel's major flaws in product quality and secu‐
rity management indicate its extremely irresponsible attitude towards cus‐
October 16, 2024 11:02
China Cyberspace Security Association
tomers.
2. Poor reliability and ignoring user complaints
Starting from the end of 2023, a large number of users have reported
that crashes will occur when playing specific games using Intel's 13th and
14th  generation  Core  i9  series  CPUs.  Game  manufacturers  have  even
added pop-up processing to the game to warn users using these CPUs.
Dylan Browne, the Unreal Engine supervisor and visual effects lead at vis‐
ual effects studio ModelFarm, posted that the failure rate of his company’s
computers using Intel processors is as high as 50%.
In  the  face  of  intensive  user feedback  that could  not  be  concealed,
Intel finally had to admit that the product had stability problems and is‐
sued a so-called preliminary investigation report, blaming the problem on
the motherboard manufacturer setting too high a voltage. But it was im‐
mediately refuted by the motherboard manufacturer, saying that the moth‐
erboards  it  produced  were  developed  according  to  the  BIOS  program
based on the data provided by Intel, and the cause of the crash did not lie
with the motherboard manufacturer. In July 2024, Intel issued a statement
explaining the frequent CPU crashes, admitting that due to incorrect mi‐
crocode  algorithms  issuing  excessive  voltage  requests  to  the  processor,
some 13th and 14th generation processors were unstable. Phenomenon.
Frequent crashes occurred at the end of 2023. It was only half a year
later that Intel identified the problem and provided an update procedure,
and the mitigation measures provided within half a year were ineffective.
This fully reflects that Intel is not actively and frankly facing the defects of
its own products. The problem is blind indifference, prevarication and de‐
lay. Some professionals speculate that the fundamental reason is that Intel
actively sacrifices product stability in order to improve performance and re‐
gain  competitive  advantage.  It  is  also  reported  that  the  US  law  firm
"Abington Cole + Ellery" has begun investigating the instability of Intel's
13th and 14th generation processors and will file a class action lawsuit on
behalf of end users.
3. Monitoring users under the guise of remote management
Intel, together with HP and other manufacturers, jointly designed the
IPMI (Intelligent Platform Management Interface) technical specification,
claiming  to  monitor  the  physical  health  characteristics  of  the  server.
Technically,  the  server  is  managed  and  controlled  through  the  BMC
(Baseboard  Management  Controller)  module.  The  BMC  module  allows
users to remotely manage devices, enabling functions such as starting the
computer,  reinstalling  the  operating  system,  and  mounting  ISO  images.
This  module  has  also  been  exposed  to  high-risk  vulnerabilities  (such  as
CVE-2019-11181), causing a large number of servers around the world to
face great security risks of being attacked and controlled.
In addition, Intel also integrates third-party open source components
with  serious  vulnerabilities  into  its  products.  Take  the  Intel  M10JNPSB
server motherboard as an example. This product supports IPMI manage‐
ment and is currently out of service. The last firmware update package was
released  on  December  13,  2022.  Analysis  shows  that  its  web  server  is
lighttpd and the version number is 1.4.35, which is actually 2014. version
on March 12, 2011, and the latest version of lighttpd at that time had been
upgraded to 1.4.66. There was a 9-year gap between the two. The time
span was surprisingly large. This irresponsible behavior puts the network
and data security of the majority of server users at huge risk.
4. Hidden backdoors jeopardize network and information security
The autonomous running subsystem ME (Management Engine) devel‐
oped by Intel has been embedded in almost all Intel CPUs since 2008. It is
part of its vigorously promoted AMT (Active Management Technology), al‐
lowing system administrators to perform tasks remotely. As long as this
function is activated, you can remotely access the computer regardless of
whether the operating system is installed. Based on peripheral redirection
technology such as optical drives, floppy drives, and USB, it can achieve the
effect of physical-level contact with the user's computer. Hardware security
expert Damien Zammit pointed out that ME is a backdoor that can fully ac‐
cess memory, bypass operating system firewalls, send and receive network
packets without the operating system user being aware of it, and users
cannot  disable  ME.  Intel  AMT  (Active  Management  Technology)  imple‐
mented based on ME technology was exposed to have a high-risk vulnera‐
bility (CVE-2017-5689) in 2017. An attacker can bypass the authentication
mechanism and log in directly by setting the response field in the login pa‐
rameters to be empty. system, gaining the highest authority.
In  August  2017,  Russian  security  experts  Mark  Ermolov  and  Maxim
Goryachy used reverse engineering to find a hidden switch suspected to be
set by the NSA (U.S. National Security Agency). The switch was located in
the HAP bit in the PCHSTERP0 field, but this time the flag was not officially
listed. recorded in the document. What’s dramatic is that HAP, which stands
for High Assurance Platform, is a project initiated by the NSA to build a
next-generation security defense system.
If the NSA directly shuts down the ME system by turning on the HAP bit
hidden switch, and at the same time, other Intel CPUs around the world
run the ME system by default, this is equivalent to the NSA being able to
build an ideal where only it has protection and everyone else is "streaking"
Monitor the environment. This poses a great security threat to the critical
information infrastructure of countries around the world, including China.
At present, the software and hardware on ME are closed source, and its se‐
curity mainly relies on Intel's unilateral commitment. However, facts show
that Intel's commitment is weak and unconvincing. The use of Intel prod‐
ucts poses serious risks to national security.
5. It is recommended to initiate a network security review
According to reports, nearly a quarter of Intel's global annual revenue
of more than US$50 billion comes from the Chinese market. In 2021, Intel's
CPUs accounted for about 77% of the domestic desktop market and about
81% of the notebook market; in 2022, Intel's x86 server market share in
China was about 91%. It can be said that Intel has made a lot of money in
China, but the company continues to do things that harm China's interests
and threaten China's national security.
Previously, the US government passed the so-called "Chip and Science
Act" to unreasonably exclude and suppress China's semiconductor indus‐
try. Intel Corporation is the biggest beneficiary of this act. Intel CEO Pat
Kissinger successfully tied Intel to the U.S. government and became the
largest partner company in the U.S. chip strategy. It not only received $8.5
billion in direct subsidies, but also received $11 billion in low interest rates.
loan.
In order to please the U.S. government, Intel has actively suppressed
China on so-called Xinjiang-related issues, requiring its suppliers not to use
any labor or purchase products or services from the Xinjiang region. In its
financial  report,  it  even  compared  Taiwan  Province  with  China  and  the
United States. , Singapore, and also took the initiative to cut off supplies
and services to Chinese companies such as Huawei and ZTE. This is a typi‐
cal example of "picking up the bowl to eat, and putting down the bowl to
smash the pot."
It is recommended to launch a network security review of Intel prod‐
ucts sold in China to effectively safeguard China's national security and the
legitimate rights and interests of Chinese consumers.
