1
Microsoft Digital Defense Report  |  September 2020
September 2020
Microsoft Digital 
Defense ReportMicrosoft logo
2
Microsoft Digital Defense Report  |  September 2020
Table of contents 
Introduction 
3	
Introduction
5	
Digital defense: Our 2020 focus areas 
7	
How to read this report
Chapter 1: The state of cybercrime 
9	
Introduction 
10	
What we’re seeing
28	
In focus: Supply chain security   
35	
Machine learning in security
Chapter 2: Nation state threats 
41	
Introduction 
42	
Tracking nation state threats
43	
Countering nation state activity
46	
Common targets and motivations
51	
Common attack techniques by nation state actors
55	
Comprehensive protections required
Chapter 3: Security and the remote workforce 
57	
Introduction 
59	
Infrastructure for a remote workforce
65	
Data sensitivity, compliance, and protection
66	
People
71	
Enterprise resilience—the new reality
Chapter 4: Actionable learnings 
73	
Steps you can take today
79	
Contributing teams at Microsoft
Glossary 
83	
Acronyms and terminology
3
Microsoft Digital Defense Report  |  September 2020
Introduction
TOM BURT, CORPORATE VICE PRESIDENT, CUSTOMER SECURITY AND TRUST
The global events of the past 12 months have brought unprecedented change to the physical and digital 
worlds. Cybercrime, however, is a constant. We’ve seen that cybercriminals continue—and sometimes 
escalate—their activity in times of crisis. Defending against cybercriminals is a complex, ever-evolving, and 
never-ending challenge. 
But knowledge is power. For security professionals to create successful defense strategies, they need more 
diverse and timelier insights into the threats they are defending against. We’re proud to provide the global 
community with the latest in a long series of security intelligence reports. The Microsoft Digital Defense Report 
is a reimagining of Microsoft’s Security Intelligence Report (SIR), first published in 2005, and it brings together 
more insights, from more teams, across more areas of Microsoft than ever before targeting a broader audience 
for consumption.
Microsoft serves billions of customers globally, 
allowing us to aggregate security data from a broad 
and diverse spectrum of companies, organizations, 
and consumers. Our unique position helps us 
generate a high-fidelity picture of the current state 
of cybersecurity, including indicators to help us 
predict what attackers will do next. This picture is 
informed by over 8 trillion security signals per day.   
There are thousands of security experts across 
77 countries working at Microsoft, interpreting 
and contributing to the insights gained from our 
advanced engineering and telemetry. Our security 
experts include analysts, researchers, responders, 
engineers, and data scientists. This report draws on 
insights, data, and signals from across Microsoft, 
including the cloud, endpoints, and the intelligent 
edge.1 We also share lessons learned from 
customers transitioning to a fully remote workforce 
and frontline stories from our incident responders. 
Of course, there’s a great deal of malign activity we 
don’t see, some of which is reported on by others 
in the industry. While the defender community at 
Microsoft works hard to identify threats and keep 
our customers informed, the bad actors are skilled 
and relentless. By continually sharing insights that 
we and others in the industry derive from the work 
we do, we hope to empower everyone to defend the 
online ecosystem more effectively. 
1 These signals are collected with customer privacy in mind. The data we collect depends on the context of your interactions with Microsoft and the choices you make, including your privacy settings and the products and features you use.
TABLE OF CONTENTS    INTRODUCTION    THE STATE OF CYBERCRIME    NATION STATE THREATS    SECURITY AND THE REMOTE WORKFORCE    ACTIONABLE LEARNINGS    GLOSSARY
4
Microsoft Digital Defense Report  |  September 2020Unique insights informed by trillions of signals. Monthly volume and diversity of signals used by Microsoft security operations. The diagram shows:
These monthly signals include over 18 million URLs scanned, over 4.1 billion conference meeting minutes, over 630 billion authentication events, threats blocked, documents scanned, and over 470 billion emails analyzed. In addition there are over a billion PCs, servers, and devices; other clouds and network logs, and over a billion apps and service users.
Unique insights informed by trillions of signals
Monthly volume and diversity of signals used by Microsoft security operations
TABLE OF CONTENTS    INTRODUCTION    THE STATE OF CYBERCRIME    NATION STATE THREATS    SECURITY AND THE REMOTE WORKFORCE    ACTIONABLE LEARNINGS    GLOSSARY
5
Microsoft Digital Defense Report  |  September 2020
Microsoft invests significantly to increase and improve the knowledge we derive from our telemetry. These 
investments deliver the highly synthesized and integrated insights that we share here. The goal of this report 
is to help organizations understand how cybercriminals are shifting their modes of attack and the best ways 
to combat those attacks. We’ve approached the writing and sharing of this report in the spirit of enabling the 
community to benefit from the insights, observations, and transparency generated by our unique mission and 
vantage point.
Digital defense: 
Our 2020 focus areas
2020 has brought major disruptions to both the physical and digital worlds, and these changes are also evident 
in the cyberthreat landscape. Certain types of attacks have escalated as cybercriminals change tactics, leveraging 
current events to take advantage of vulnerable targets and advance their activity through new channels. Change 
brings opportunity, for both attackers and defenders, and this report will focus on the threats that are most 
novel and relevant to the community in this moment.
Looking at the data and signals from the cross-company teams, three top-level areas came into the sharpest 
focus: cybercrime, nation state threats, and the remote workforce.
The state of cybercrime
Cybercrime is a business. Like any other business, there’s a need to innovate to be profitable and successful. 
Some types of cybercrime persist independent of economic, political, or social changes, while certain types are 
fueled by these changes. Cybercriminals can be found globally and have different skill sets and motivations. 
In this section, we look at the complexity that Microsoft and the industry face when defending against an 
extremely diverse set of criminal actors and their ever-evolving tactics and techniques.
A key area we address in this section is the opportunistic nature of cybercriminals as they capitalized on 
interest and fear related to the COVID-19 pandemic and other disruptive events. As the virus spread globally, 
cybercriminals pivoted their lures to imitate trusted sources like the World Health Organization (WHO) and other 
national health organizations, in an effort to get users to click on malicious links and attachments. 
Synthesized insights drawing from security and threat intel teams 
across Microsoft and over 8 trillion security signals per day.Diagram depicting synthesized, integrated insights drawn from a global team of security experts, massive signal depth and diversity, and cutting-edge artificial intelligence.
Email phishing in the enterprise context continues to grow and has become a dominant vector. Given the 
increase in available information regarding these schemes and technical advancements in detection, the 
criminals behind these attacks are now spending significant time, money, and effort to develop scams that are 
sufficiently sophisticated to victimize even savvy professionals. Attack techniques in phishing and business email 
compromise (BEC) are evolving quickly. Previously, cybercriminals focused their efforts on malware attacks, 
but they’ve shifted their focus to ransomware, as well as phishing attacks with the goal of harvesting user 
credentials. Human-operated ransomware gangs are performing massive, wide-ranging sweeps of the internet, 
searching for vulnerable entry points, as they “bank” access, waiting for a time that’s advantageous to 
their purpose. 
TABLE OF CONTENTS    INTRODUCTION    THE STATE OF CYBERCRIME    NATION STATE THREATS    SECURITY AND THE REMOTE WORKFORCE    ACTIONABLE LEARNINGS    GLOSSARY
6
Microsoft Digital Defense Report  |  September 2020
We share leading indicators of where attacks might be headed next, as we provide a look into adversarial 
machine learning (ML), attacks on ML systems, and why it’s so important for organizations to take steps to 
secure them. We propose democratizing ML for customized anomaly detections and a scalable effort, making it 
ubiquitous across the variety of data types.
Modern business systems are driven by a complex, global supply chain. In this section, we focus our 
observations and recommendations for supply chain security on third-party services, open-source software, and 
Internet of Things (IoT) hardware, concluding with a look at changes to the regulatory landscape.
Nation state threats
Nation state actors are well-funded, well-trained, and have more patience to play the ”long game,” which can 
make identification of anomalous activity more difficult. Like cybercriminals, they watch their targets and change 
techniques to increase their effectiveness. To protect our customers, Microsoft spends significant resources 
monitoring and disrupting nation state attacks attempted on our platform. In this section, we explain the four 
main approaches Microsoft employs to thwart nation state actors: technology, operations, legal action, 
and policy. 
We also provide our analysis of the intent behind nation state threats and how to defend against them. We look 
at top-level trends in country-of-activity origin, targeted geographic regions, and the top nation state activity 
groups detected. Interestingly, nation state activity is significantly more likely to target organizations outside of 
the critical infrastructure sectors. The most frequently targeted sector has been non-governmental organizations 
(NGOs), such as advocacy groups, human rights organizations, nonprofit organizations, and think tanks focused 
on public policy, international affairs, or security.  
Whatever the strategic objectives behind the activity, nation state actors have these common operational aims: 
espionage, disruption or destruction of data, and disruption or destruction of physical assets. 
Finally, we examine some of the most common attack techniques used by nation state actors in the past year: 
reconnaissance, credential harvesting, malware, and virtual private network (VPN) exploits. As an example, we 
see advanced adversaries investing heavily in development of unique malware, in addition to using openly 
available malicious code.
Security and the remote workforce
Almost overnight, the workforce of thousands of organizations around the world became entirely remote. 
School closures forced millions of students to rapidly transition to learning from home—and added significant 
challenges for parents and caretakers. Although workforces around the world, regardless of size, have been 
trending toward mobility in some aspects of their operations, few companies and learning institutions were set 
up to operate 100% remotely. Operational tasks like software or device patching and updates had previously 
been accomplished when mobile workers routinely returned to the office, but after the COVID-19 outbreak, this 
option temporarily disappeared. At Microsoft, COVID-19 became a catalyst for managing a remote workforce 
with immediacy and at scale.
In this chapter, we take a closer look at three important areas of consideration for an at-scale remote workforce: 
infrastructure, data, and people. Architecture and infrastructure designed to support an on-premises workforce 
isn’t well-equipped to support fully remote workers. We explain how organizations can support a secure, 
remote workforce through VPN architecture and the principles of Zero Trust, and how Microsoft used Zero Trust 
principles to enable its own transition to remote work. We discuss some of the largest availability and security 
concerns facing the remote workforce, such as distributed denial of service (DDoS) attacks, and we explore what 
this means for organizational privacy and security.  
Data protection practices continue to increase, as workforces become remote and teams collaborate on vital 
assets without being physically together. Correspondingly, we observe the continued increase in usage of 
information rights management to enforce policies aimed at protecting confidential information and 
intellectual property. 
Finally, we reflect on our enterprise-scale exercise in resilience and lessons learned as the world moves 
through a global pandemic and billions of individuals adapt to working, learning, and socializing from their 
home environments. To some degree, the enterprise response to COVID-19 changed not only our operational 
procedures but also the very vocabulary that we use to describe our reactive measures. In this section, we 
consider “the extended security boundary,” “pandemic resilience,” “human infrastructure,” and ways in which 
traditionally less scrutinized areas have become critical to enterprise resilience. 
TABLE OF CONTENTS    INTRODUCTION    THE STATE OF CYBERCRIME    NATION STATE THREATS    SECURITY AND THE REMOTE WORKFORCE    ACTIONABLE LEARNINGS    GLOSSARY
7
Microsoft Digital Defense Report  |  September 2020
How to read this report 
To help you get the most out of this report, we’ve incorporated navigational elements throughout 
to increase readability.
Telemetry icons 
These guide you to areas that show you what we’re seeing.Photograph of people working in a corporate conference room.Best practice icons: these guide you to our recommended controls.Telemetry icons: these guide you to areas that show you what we're seeing. 
7
Microsoft Digital Defense Report  |  September 2020
Best practice icons 
These guide you to our recommended controls.
Actionable learnings   
Located at the end of the report, these provide a summary based on industry 
guidance and what we’ve seen work best for Microsoft and our customers.
Glossary 
A clarification of acronyms and terminology, located at the end of the report.
Learn more 
Resources and references for deeper technical information and further reading 
are listed in each chapter.
TABLE OF CONTENTS    INTRODUCTION    THE STATE OF CYBERCRIME    NATION STATE THREATS    SECURITY AND THE REMOTE WORKFORCE    ACTIONABLE LEARNINGS    GLOSSARY
8
Microsoft Digital Defense Report  |  September 2020
1
The state of cybercrime
Introduction
What we’re seeing
In focus: Supply chain security
Machine learning in security
TABLE OF CONTENTS    INTRODUCTION    THE STATE OF CYBERCRIME    NATION STATE THREATS    SECURITY AND THE REMOTE WORKFORCE    ACTIONABLE LEARNINGS    GLOSSARY
9
Microsoft Digital Defense Report  |  September 2020
Introduction
 AMY HOGAN-BURNEY, GENERAL MANAGER, DIGITAL CRIMES UNIT
Cybercrime is an ongoing and escalating challenge for both the public and private sectors around the globe. 
It’s no longer effective to view cybercrime solely through the lens of a specific criminal or type of crime. 
Rather, cybercrime is now a large and diverse enterprise, often available for sale, to commit a variety of 
attacks, such as fraud, theft, and spying. It could be financially motivated, or nation state supported, or both.
Activity like this is possible because of a global 
network of actors and infrastructure used to 
facilitate the crime. Arrests and prosecution can 
be elusive owing to the international nature and 
the often-differing locations of the criminal, crime, 
and victim. The actions of cybercriminals are often 
disguised, leveraging a crisis or major global event 
and the daily news cycle and relying on personal 
behaviors to perpetrate a criminal act. As varied 
as the motivations are, so too are the number and 
types of victims: individuals, governments, industries, 
or corporations can be targeted.  
Despite sophistication and diversity of the attacks, 
the methodology is often the same, whether the 
actors use large-scale attacks for financial gain or 
targeted attacks to support geopolitical interests. A 
phishing email can be a massive campaign targeting 
millions of users or a single, targeted email that 
represents a socially engineered marvel many 
months in the making. Homoglyphs, or spoofed 
domains, can be used to trick victims. 
An example of this usage is “Microsoft.com” and 
“Micr0soft.com,” where the first “o” is replaced by 
a zero and can be easily overlooked by human 
readers. This malicious domain, Micr0soft.com, can 
then be used to distribute malware, steal credentials, 
or support a fraudulent website. That malware then 
can be used to create a botnet to facilitate a DDoS 
attack against a bank, distribute ransomware, or 
steal sensitive information about a nation’s critical 
infrastructure. We look for commonalities across 
various environments and ecosystems to understand 
and disrupt these methods. We work to dismantle 
the criminals’ infrastructure, sharing information 
gathered through the course of our investigations 
as appropriate. We can then offer these additional 
insights to our product teams who use this 
information to provide greater protection to 
our customers. 
In this chapter, we present what we’re seeing as the 
state of cybercrime through evolving techniques in 
phishing and BEC, ransomware, and malware. We 
also focus our observations and recommendations 
on supply chain security. Finally, we include a deeper 
look into four trends in ML.Icon representing the State of Cybercrime chapter
TABLE OF CONTENTS    INTRODUCTION    THE STATE OF CYBERCRIME    NATION STATE THREATS    SECURITY AND THE REMOTE WORKFORCE    ACTIONABLE LEARNINGS    GLOSSARY
10
Microsoft Digital Defense Report  |  September 2020
What we’re seeing
Cybercrime follows the contemporary issues of the day
The threat environment we face continues to evolve. Cybercriminals are creative, well-resourced, well-organized, 
and innovative. They move quickly to discover new threat vectors, use new exploits, and respond to new defenses. 
Attackers are opportunistic and will even switch lure themes daily in accordance with news cycles, as seen in 
cybercriminals’ use of the global COVID-19 pandemic to broadly target consumers, as well as to specifically 
target hospitals and healthcare providers. 
COVID-19-themed attacks: United StatesGraph: Total COVID-19 themed attack encounters in the United States, February through June 2020, with a peak in mid-March at around 5 and a half million.
The lack of basic security hygiene in any given ecosystem continues to enable cybercriminals to use well-known 
vulnerabilities—or new variants of them—to exploit their environments. They also were observed to leverage 
the fear and uncertainty associated with COVID-19 with great success. While the COVID-19-themed attacks 
represent a small percentage of the total of malware we observed, our tracking of these themed attacks shows 
how rapidly cybercriminals move to adapt their lures to the topics of the day.Photo depicting a person wearing a face mask and walking across a city street.
10
Microsoft Digital Defense Report  |  September 2020
TABLE OF CONTENTS    INTRODUCTION    THE STATE OF CYBERCRIME    NATION STATE THREATS    SECURITY AND THE REMOTE WORKFORCE    ACTIONABLE LEARNINGS    GLOSSARY
11
Microsoft Digital Defense Report  |  September 2020
Source: Verizon Annual Data Breach Incident Report 2020, Figure 7Graph depicting unique and total malware encounters for COVID-19-themed attacks in the United States, February to June 2020. Encounter numbers rose following notable news events with the highest numbers on a given day reaching over 70 thousand on March 14.Graph depicting unique and total malware encounters for COVID-19-themed attacks in the United Kingdom, February to June 2020. Encounter numbers rose following notable news events with the highest numbers on a given day reaching nearly 7 thousand on March 14.Telemetry icon: here’s what we're seeing.
 Instances of unique and total malware encounters in relation to local news events of the day, as seen in the United States, the United Kingdom, and South Korea
COVID-19-themed attacks: 
United Kingdom
COVID-19-themed attacks: 
United States
TABLE OF CONTENTS    INTRODUCTION    THE STATE OF CYBERCRIME    NATION STATE THREATS    SECURITY AND THE REMOTE WORKFORCE    ACTIONABLE LEARNINGS    GLOSSARY
12
Microsoft Digital Defense Report  |  September 2020
Source: Verizon Annual Data Breach Incident Report 2020, Figure 7Graph depicting unique and total malware encounters for COVID-19-themed attacks in South Korea, February to June 2020. Encounter numbers rose following notable news events with the highest numbers on a given day reaching nearly 4 and a half thousand in late April.
COVID-19-themed attacks: 
South Korea
As our threat intelligence teams at Microsoft actively monitor and respond to these shifts in focus, our telemetry 
shows that, while the overall volume of malware remains largely the same, adversaries used the COVID-19 
theme to socially engineer lures around the anxiety and the flood of information associated with the pandemic. 
Attackers also exploited the crisis to reduce their dwell time within a victim’s system—compromising, exfiltrating 
data, and in some cases ransoming quickly—apparently believing that there would be an increased willingness 
to pay as a result of the outbreak. It’s a common understanding among defenders to “never waste a crisis” and 
to use the information from the crisis to help inform the investments needed. Cybercriminals share the same 
philosophy; they seek to blend their well-established tactics and malware with human curiosity and our need 
for information.
TABLE OF CONTENTS    INTRODUCTION    THE STATE OF CYBERCRIME    NATION STATE THREATS    SECURITY AND THE REMOTE WORKFORCE    ACTIONABLE LEARNINGS    GLOSSARY
13
Microsoft Digital Defense Report  |  September 2020
Source: Verizon Annual Data Breach Incident Report 2020, Figure 7Graph depicting a global news events timeline, correlating criminal activity, and Microsoft detections and response, for December through April 2020.
News events, criminal activity, and Microsoft’s response
TABLE OF CONTENTS    INTRODUCTION    THE STATE OF CYBERCRIME    NATION STATE THREATS    SECURITY AND THE REMOTE WORKFORCE    ACTIONABLE LEARNINGS    GLOSSARY
14
Microsoft Digital Defense Report  |  September 2020Telemetry icon: here’s what we're seeing.
 Our intelligence shows that these attacks settled 
into a rhythm that’s the normal ebb and flow of 
the threat environment. Our telemetry shows that 
China, the United States, and Russia were hit the 
hardest, but every country in the world saw at least 
one COVID-19-themed attack, with the volume of 
successful attacks in outbreak-hit countries increasing 
as fear and the desire for information grew.
Of course, COVID-19 was just one of the themes 
exploited by cybercriminals. Microsoft’s Digital 
Crimes Unit (DCU) continues to work with partners 
and proper authorities in more than 50 countries 
to take coordinated legal and technical steps to 
take down malicious domains and URLs, and, where 
possible, to prosecute the individuals behind them.
For more information on COVID-19-related 
cybercrime, see the Nation state threats chapter of 
this report.
Learn more:
Microsoft takes legal action against COVID-19-related 
cybercrime 2020/07/07
Microsoft shares new threat intelligence, security 
guidance during global crisis 2020/04/08
Relative impact of COVID-19-themed attacks across the world by file count (as of July 1, 2020)A map depicting relative impact of COVID-19-themed attacks around the world.
TABLE OF CONTENTS    INTRODUCTION    THE STATE OF CYBERCRIME    NATION STATE THREATS    SECURITY AND THE REMOTE WORKFORCE    ACTIONABLE LEARNINGS    GLOSSARY
15
Microsoft Digital Defense Report  |  September 2020
Phishing and business email compromise
Email phishing in the enterprise context continues to grow and has become a dominant vector. Essentially, 
phishing occurs when individuals or organizations receive a fraudulent email encouraging them to click on a 
link, giving the cybercriminal access to a device or personal information.
From our view in Office 365 telemetry, we see customers facing three main forms of phishing:
1. Credential phishing
The cybercriminal attempts to pose as a well-known service in the email template (typically Microsoft and other 
established enterprise SaaS services). They then try to lure the user into clicking on a link, which, through a 
series of misdirections, will present a fake login page to the user. Once a credential has been compromised, it 
can be used to launch different kill chains to build further persistence inside an organization by using cloud-only 
APIs and systems, and to move around laterally to steal data, money, or otherwise breach the organization. 
Example of credential phishing:
The cybercriminals begin by setting up a criminal infrastructure designed to steal an individual’s credentials 
(phishing kits often contain everything they need for this). The cybercriminals send malicious email to the 
unsuspecting individual, who then clicks on a link within the email. The individual might then be taken to a fake 
web form to enter their credentials, or the site might contain malware that’s automatically downloaded to their 
device, capturing credentials stored on the device or in the browser memory. The victim’s credentials are then 
collected by the cybercriminals who use the credentials to gain access to legitimate websites or even the victim’s 
corporate network. Best practice icon: our recommended controls.
 Reduce risk of security breaches with strong authentication.² Strong authentication can protect your 
users from the vast majority of identity attacks. Passwordless authentication options are recommended for 
best security and user experience. Using an authenticator app is always the preferred option over SMS/voice 
authentication.
Credential phishing example
2 Office 365 Advanced Threat Protection and Microsoft Defender Advanced Threat Protection both protect against credential phishing and BEC. An infographic of the credential phishing example.
TABLE OF CONTENTS    INTRODUCTION    THE STATE OF CYBERCRIME    NATION STATE THREATS    SECURITY AND THE REMOTE WORKFORCE    ACTIONABLE LEARNINGS    GLOSSARY
16
Microsoft Digital Defense Report  |  September 2020
2. Business email compromise (aka CEO fraud or vendor compromise) 
Business email compromise is a type of phishing that specifically targets businesses. It’s characterized by 
techniques used to pose as someone who the victims will likely take notice of, such as the company CEO, CFO, 
or the accounts receivable clerk. BEC can also involve a business-to-business transaction. For example, the 
cybercriminal might fraudulently access a company’s system and then pose as that company to fraudulently 
request payment from another company. 
Depending on the entity that gets impersonated or spoofed, the attack can be categorized as BEC, CEO fraud, or 
vendor compromise. 
While the industry and vendor-specific terminology for this class of attacks has been evolving, at its core it 
employs three basic patterns of a cybercriminal posing as another entity:
•	 Cybercriminal creates an exact spoof of an established person or organization that the recipient has 
a relationship with, and then gains trust to deliver the fraud. For example, the email comes from an 
infrastructure controlled by the cybercriminal but appears to come from a legitimate person (sender address 
is identical). 
•	 Cybercriminal creates a look-alike impersonation of an established person or organization that the recipient 
has a relationship with, and then gains trust to deliver the fraud. For example, the criminal signs up for and 
sends from this account: YourCompanyCEO@outlook.com.
•	 Cybercriminal creates a look-alike domain and registers it for the sole purpose of delivering a BEC attack. 
For example, instead of CEO@microsoft.com, the criminal sets up the domain micros0ft.com (number zero 
replaces letter “o”) and sends email from it.
At its core, BEC is a social engineering scam. However, given the increase in available information regarding 
these schemes and technical advancements in detection, the criminals behind these attacks are now spending 
significant time, money, and effort to develop scams that are sufficiently sophisticated to victimize increasingly 
savvy professionals.
...the criminals 
behind these attacks 
are now spending 
significant time, 
money, and effort 
to develop scams 
that are sufficiently 
sophisticated to 
victimize increasingly 
savvy professionals.
16
Microsoft Digital Defense Report  |  September 2020
TABLE OF CONTENTS    INTRODUCTION    THE STATE OF CYBERCRIME    NATION STATE THREATS    SECURITY AND THE REMOTE WORKFORCE    ACTIONABLE LEARNINGS    GLOSSARY
17
Microsoft Digital Defense Report  |  September 2020
3. Combination of BEC and credential phishing 
We’re also seeing new attack kill chains that combine the two forms to deliver more sophisticated kill chains. 
This attack can start with credential phishing. Once an account is compromised, the cybercriminal sets up 
mailbox “forwarding” rules to monitor for financial transactions. Often these forwarding rules include keywords 
such as “invoice,” “accounts receivable,” “funds,” “overdue,” “payroll,” or “IBAN” and send all relevant email to a 
collection email account controlled and monitored by the cybercriminal. The cybercriminal then inserts a victim 
impersonation email in the middle of a communication to misdirect and steal money or information. 
While credential phishing and BEC continue to be the dominant variations, we also see attacks on a user’s identity 
and credential being attempted via password reuse and password spray attacks using legacy email protocols 
such as IMAP and SMTP.
Example of BEC where cybercriminal masquerades as CEO:
Depending on the level of sophistication of the attack, the cybercriminals might begin by monitoring the 
CEO’s mail account for information such as relationships within the company, common phrases used, business 
activities or travel, and especially information about payments or wire transfers. The cybercriminals might set 
mailbox forwarding rules using keywords such as “invoice” or “accounts receivable” so that mail containing these 
words is directed to a drop email account that they control and monitor. 
The cybercriminals can then send mail requesting sensitive information or payments to be made, using links 
or instructions to wire payment to a fraudulent bank account. Unsuspecting employees will comply with the 
requests, believing the requests come from the CEO, and wire the payment to the cybercriminal’s account.
Example of BEC where cybercriminal masquerades as CEO
COVID-19-themed phishing luresTelemetry icon: here’s what we're seeing.
 Microsoft tracks thousands of email phishing 
campaigns that cover millions of malicious messages 
every week. Phishing campaigns are more than 
just one targeted email at one targeted user. They 
include potentially hundreds or thousands of 
malicious emails targeting hundreds or thousands 
of users, which is why they can be so effective. Of 
the millions of targeted messages we see each day, 
roughly 60,000 included COVID-19-related malicious 
attachments or malicious URLs during April 2020.
We’ve seen many instances of attackers 
impersonating established entities like the WHO, 
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), 
and the Department of Health to get into inboxes. 
The trendy and pervasive Trickbot and Emotet 
malware families are very active in rebranding their 
lures to take advantage of the outbreak. As of June 
30, 2020, we observed 79 threat variants globally 
using COVID-19-themed lures.An infographic of a business email compromise example, where the cybercriminal masquerades as a CEO.
TABLE OF CONTENTS    INTRODUCTION    THE STATE OF CYBERCRIME    NATION STATE THREATS    SECURITY AND THE REMOTE WORKFORCE    ACTIONABLE LEARNINGS    GLOSSARY
18
Microsoft Digital Defense Report  |  September 2020
What we’re seeing in Office 365 telemetryTelemetry icon: here’s what we're seeing.
 In 2019 we blocked over 13 billion malicious 
and suspicious mails, out of which more than 
1 billion were URL-based phishing threats (URLs set 
up for the explicit purpose of launching a phishing 
credential attack).³ These URLs were set up and 
weaponized just in time for the attacks and had 
no previous malicious reputation. We’re seeing 
approximately 2 million such URL payloads being 
created each month for credential harvesting, 
orchestrated through thousands of phishing 
campaigns.
Evolving techniques 
Attack techniques have continued to evolve over 
the past year, with notable variation in campaign 
orchestration, URL payloads, and delivery 
mechanism. Telemetry icon: here’s what we're seeing.
 Attack techniques
•	 Increased usage of cloud services and
compromised infrastructure
As detection rates improve, we’re seeing
cybercriminals shift tactics and use cloud
services and compromised email and web
hosting infrastructures to orchestrate these
phishing campaigns. They aim to hide among
these reputable cloud services to avoid
detection. We’ve seen cybercriminals leverage
the most popular cloud services, email
sending services, and file sharing services to
launch attacks.
•	 Rapidly changing campaigns
We’re also seeing attack campaigns that are
being rapidly changed or morphed to avoid
detection. Morphing is being used across
sending domains, email addresses, content
templates, and URL domains. The goal is to
increase the combination of variations to evade
detections. In Office 365, we’re investing in
sophisticated campaign clustering intelligence
to enable security operations center (SOC)
teams to piece together these complex
campaigns from their fragments.
•	 Constant evolution in payload delivery
mechanisms
Over the last year, we saw interesting
techniques used for launching attacks. We
saw cybercriminals using poisoned search
results and legitimate URLs that linked to those
searches to deliver an attack. In another attack,
we saw cybercriminals use custom 404 pages to
host phishing payloads. We’ve also seen man-
in-the-middle components used to present less
suspicious sites to the targets and captcha and
other evasion tools to hide detections.
As defenders, we continue to leverage this data 
and telemetry to add enhanced detection and 
intelligence capabilities in our Office 365 filtering 
services, across Exchange Online Protection  and 
Office 365 Advanced Threat Protection, to help 
secure our customers from these modern and 
increasingly sophisticated attack variations.
Up until a few years ago, 
cybercriminals focused their efforts 
on malware attacks because they 
provided the greatest ROI. 

More recently, they’ve shifted their 
focus to phishing attacks (~70%) 
with the goal of harvesting 
user credentials. 
3 Office 365 email gateway services across Exchange Online Protection and Advanced Threat Protection scan trillions of emails every year.Office 365 Advanced Threat Protection detections in the past year: 6 trillion messages scanned, approximately 13 billion malicious emails blocked, approximately 1.6 billion URL-based email phishing threats blocked, and 1.7 to 2 billion URL payloads being created each month, orchestrated through thousands of phishing campaigns.
What we’ve seen in Office 365 Advanced 
Threat Protection detection in the past year:
TABLE OF CONTENTS    INTRODUCTION    THE STATE OF CYBERCRIME    NATION STATE THREATS    SECURITY AND THE REMOTE WORKFORCE    ACTIONABLE LEARNINGS    GLOSSARY
19
Microsoft Digital Defense Report  |  September 2020
What we’re seeing in the Digital Crimes Unit
The Microsoft Digital Crimes Unit is a team 
of attorneys, investigators, data scientists, 
engineers, analysts, and business professionals 
who fight cybercrime globally through the 
innovative application of technology, forensics, 
civil actions, criminal referrals, and public and 
private partnerships, while protecting the security 
and privacy of our customers. Some of the DCU 
observations about phishing and BEC are 
shared here. 
Email-facilitated cybercrime, such as credential 
phishing for cloud services and BEC, continues to 
expand in scope and complexity. According to the 
Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI), as reported in 
the 2019 Internet Crime Report, the Internet Crime 
Complaint Center (IC3) received nearly a half a 
million complaints and recorded over $3.5 billion in 
losses to individual and business victims. The most 
frequently reported complaints involved email-
facilitated cybercrime and the most costly involved 
BEC crimes. According to the IC3, BEC complaints 
totaled 23,775 and accounted for losses of more 
than $1.7 billion—representing nearly half of all 
financial losses owing to cybercrime.Telemetry icon: here’s what we're seeing.
 Targeting the C-Suite
Although BEC scams have posed a significant 
threat to businesses and individuals for many years, 
these schemes continue to evolve in sophistication 
and reach. Early BEC schemes tended to focus 
on spoofing or impersonating emails from CEOs 
or CFOs in an attempt to redirect wire transfers 
to fraudulent accounts controlled by criminals. 
Current BEC schemes include multiple phases 
and usually start with reconnaissance of targeted 
businesses prior to initiating an attack. Research 
by cybercriminals during the initial phase results in 
identifying specific accounts to target for account 
compromise through techniques like credential 
phishing. We’ve observed threat actors targeting 
C-suite, accounting, and payroll employees in these 
credential phishing attacks.Telemetry icon: here’s what we're seeing.
 Brand imitation continues to grow
Many credential phishing scams start by imitating 
a well-known brand, enterprise cloud service, or 
government entity. They require users to click on 
a link that leads to a fake login site and lures them 
into revealing their credentials. Another common 
tactic is to spoof trademarks from trusted brands 
in the phishing “lure.” It’s no surprise that well-
known brands in banking, telecommunication, 
and technology are frequently spoofed to deceive 
recipients. Based on our Office 365 telemetry, the 
top five spoofed brands are Microsoft, UPS, Amazon, 
Apple, and Zoom. The websites that host the fake 
login pages are composed of phishing kits deployed 
by cybercriminals. For instance, there’s a “Microsoft”-
branded phishing kit that “advises” recipients that 
they’ve received a voicemail. Each phishing kit also 
includes a “drop account,” or email account set up by 
the criminal to receive credentials provided by the 
unsuspecting victim. There are literally thousands of 
different phishing kits sold on the dark web today. 
DCU routinely analyzes these kits to develop insights 
to thwart ongoing and future credential harvesting 
and BEC campaigns targeting our customers.
Top 5 spoofed brands 
Microsoft
UPS
Amazon
Apple
ZoomTelemetry icon: here’s what we're seeing.
 BEC-targeted industries
Given the time dedicated to research and post-
compromise reconnaissance, cybercriminals know 
which industries frequently wire large payments. 
Based on our BEC investigations, the top 10 most 
targeted industries for BEC attacks are accounting 
and consulting, wholesale distribution, IT services, 
real estate, education, health care, chemicals, high 
tech and electronics, legal services, and outsourced 
services. Cybercriminals also understand business 
and payment cycles. As a result, DCU sees phishing 
campaigns directed at specific industries and BEC 
attacks timed to increase the ROI.
Top 10 targeted industries 
for BEC attacks
Accounting & Consulting
Wholesale Distribution
IT Services
Real Estate
Education
Healthcare
Chemicals
High Tech & Electronics
Legal Services
Outsourced Services
TABLE OF CONTENTS    INTRODUCTION    THE STATE OF CYBERCRIME    NATION STATE THREATS    SECURITY AND THE REMOTE WORKFORCE    ACTIONABLE LEARNINGS    GLOSSARY
20
Microsoft Digital Defense Report  |  September 2020
Our strategy
Given the enormity and complexity of the credential 
phishing and BEC issue, the DCU, together with 
security engineering teams across Microsoft, is 
executing a strategy focused on four functions: 
disrupt, deter, strengthen, and communicate.
Disrupt: The disrupt function is to analyze and map 
the technical infrastructure utilized by cybercriminals 
to launch BEC attacks. The infrastructure includes 
phishing URLs, phishing kits, collection accounts, 
drop accounts, and homoglyph domains. DCU takes 
action to take down these aspects of the criminal 
technical infrastructure through established notice 
and take-down procedures or through judicial 
intervention. Comprehensive disruption mitigates 
the likelihood of successful BEC attacks and 
increases the cost to cybercriminals, reducing the 
ROI and incentive for cybercrime. The data produced 
by disruption efforts informs allocation of resources 
and other decisions to drive strategic decision-
making to yield the highest impact.
Deter: The deter function focuses on identifying, 
investigating, and developing cases for criminal 
referral to law enforcement agencies throughout the 
world, or for civil action as appropriate. Successful 
enforcement actions have a powerful impact by 
acting as both a specific and general deterrence 
against future cybercrime. 
Strengthen: The evidence and insights gained from 
DCU case development are shared with Microsoft 
product security engineering teams and help inform 
advancements in product security and technical 
measures to defeat phishing and BEC. 
Communicate: Finally, DCU communicates our 
findings internally and externally to provide 
guidance to customers on how to avoid falling 
victim to BEC scams.
Learn more: 
Top 10 ways to secure your dataTelemetry icon: here’s what we're seeing.
 Phishing URLs and phishing kits target the Microsoft brand. Drop email accounts refer to the 
bad actor emails to which the stolen credentials (that are the result of successful phishing) are sent.Best practice icon: our recommended controls.
 Prevention checklist:Graph of monthly numbers of phishing kits identified from August 2019 through July 2020, ranging from approximately 3 hundred to 13 hundred.Graph of monthly numbers of phishing URLs detected from August 2019 through July 2020, ranging from approximately 40 thousand to 100 thousand.Graph of monthly numbers of drop email accounts identified from August 2019 through July 2020, ranging from approximately 2 hundred to 14 hundred.Three-item prevention checklist.
TABLE OF CONTENTS    INTRODUCTION    THE STATE OF CYBERCRIME    NATION STATE THREATS    SECURITY AND THE REMOTE WORKFORCE    ACTIONABLE LEARNINGS    GLOSSARY
21
Microsoft Digital Defense Report  |  September 2020
Training employees to combat phishing
Every year, we provide more than 200,000 employees 
and external staff with the experience of being 
phished, along with prevention education and 
reporting guidance. We then follow up with users who 
were susceptible through quarterly simulations to help 
them better identify key indicators in the future. In 
addition, full-time employees are required to complete 
annual and updated Security Foundations training. 
These levers, combined with ongoing awareness 
campaigns, are what drive positive user behavior.
Our employees have a solid awareness of 
cybersecurity risk behaviors, but they aren’t 
impervious to savvier tactics. This means our 
prevention education programs must honor what 
they already know by shifting away from general 
awareness content and a one-size-fits-all approach 
toward a more tailored and data-driven strategy. 
This focused emphasis ensures employees remain 
engaged with our content and training and that 
we’re focused on experiences our employees will 
likely encounter in our environment.Best practice icon: our recommended controls.
 Our strategy has moved away from a 
compliance-centric mindset and toward an adult 
learning and skills-building model. This model 
guarantees we build skills progressively over time 
to help us reach the desired behavioral outcomes 
and reduce risk. We use a series of micro-learnings, 
or shorter online trainings, launched throughout 
the year. This cadence allows employees to absorb 
the information in manageable pieces, keeps our 
employee engagement high, and helps solidify their 
skills with knowledge reinforcement.
Annually we’re seeing 
continual improvements in 
employees’ abilities to 
recognize and report phishing 
as a result of employee 
training at Microsoft.
Phishing is, of course, just one element of an overall 
security awareness program. Organizations should 
establish an awareness program that takes a holistic 
approach, utilizing multiple levers with data and 
telemetry at its center. Determining what areas of 
behavior are driven by a lack of knowledge will best 
be addressed with a “training first” approach. Areas 
where employees have the knowledge but are still 
not displaying desired security behaviors should 
be addressed through other efforts, like targeted 
campaigns, leadership messaging, outreach events, 
and a closer look at process and procedures. This is 
why telemetry—and knowing what to measure—is 
so critical to the effectiveness of a program.
Employee phishing training moduleImage of phishing mail reporting icon in email home tab.
Learn more about phishing and business email 
compromise:
Microsoft shares new threat intelligence and security 
guidance during global crisis 2020/04/08
Protecting against coronavirus-themed phishing 
attacks 2020/03/20
Protect yourself from phishing schemes and other 
forms of online fraud
TABLE OF CONTENTS    INTRODUCTION    THE STATE OF CYBERCRIME    NATION STATE THREATS    SECURITY AND THE REMOTE WORKFORCE    ACTIONABLE LEARNINGS    GLOSSARY
22
Microsoft Digital Defense Report  |  September 2020
4 https://www.interpol.int/News-and-Events/News/2020/Cybercriminals-targeting-critical-healthcare-institutions-with-ransomware
Ransomware: A high-impact, human-driven threat
Historically, cyberattacks were seen as a sophisticated set of actions targeting particular industries, which left 
the remaining industries believing they were outside the scope of cybercrime, and without context about which 
cybersecurity threats they should prepare for. Ransomware represents a major shift in this threat landscape, 
and it’s made cyberattacks a very real and omnipresent danger for everyone. Encrypted and lost files and 
threatening ransom notes have now become the top-of-mind fear for most executive teams.
INTERPOL issued a warning to organizations at the forefront 
of the global response to the COVID-19 outbreak because they’ve also 
become targets of ransomware attacks designed to lock them out 
of their critical systems in an attempt to extort payments.
4
Ransomware’s economic model capitalizes on the misperception that a ransomware attack is solely a malware 
incident, whereas in reality ransomware is a breach involving human adversaries attacking a network. 
For many organizations, the cost to rebuild from scratch after a ransomware incident far outweighs the original 
ransom demanded. With a limited understanding of the threat landscape and how ransomware operates, paying 
the ransom seems like the better business decision to return to operations. However, the real damage is often 
done when the cybercriminal exfiltrates files for release or sale, while leaving backdoors in the network for future 
criminal activity—and these risks persist whether or not the ransom is paid.
Paying a ransom 
doesn’t remove the attacker
The rise in popularity of ransomware—and its 
subsequent rise in fame—has led to a cybersecurity 
narrative that focuses on the intricacies of the 
ransomware payload itself and the novelty of 
encryption methods utilized. This makes it seem 
as if the ransomware were appearing on networks 
through characteristics of the malware and that 
defenses should focus on preventing encryption. 
However, this approach often fails to address the 
root problem because it ignores the human actors 
behind the threat, the specificity of their targets, 
and that access to their networks might already be 
compromised.  
Understanding and fixing the fundamental security 
issues that led to the compromise in the first place 
should be a priority for ransomware victims.  Telemetry icon: here’s what we're seeing.
 Microsoft’s Detection and Response Team 
(DART) engages with customers around the world, 
helping to protect and harden against attacks before 
they occur, as well as investigating and remediating 
when an attack has occurred. DART has observed 
that ransomware continues to be the most common 
reason behind our incident response engagements 
from October 2019 through July 2020. More threat 
actors are using open-source tools like Cobalt Strike, 
MimiKatz, ProcessHacker, and LaZagne to initiate the 
attack that ultimately delivers ransomware payload. 
The malware used in these incidents is usually 
delivered through spear phishing or by exploiting 
public-facing applications.
Human-operated ransomware
Human-operated ransomware is sometimes referred 
to as “big game ransomware,” a term that implies 
cybercriminals select specific networks for their 
value proposition and then hunt for entry vectors. 
This approach has been the exception, not the rule, 
in most major ransomware attacks in the past year. 
Cybercriminals perform massive wide-ranging sweeps 
of the internet, searching for vulnerable entry points. 
Or they enter networks via “commodity” trojans and 
then “bank” this access for a time and purpose that’s 
advantageous to them. For example, cybercriminals 
used Dridex (a strain of banking malware that 
leverages macros in Microsoft Office) to gain initial 
access to networks, and then ransomed a subset of 
them with the DoppelPaymer ransomware during the 
2019 Christmas holiday season. As another example, 
cybercriminals exploited vulnerabilities in VPN and 
remote access devices to gain credentials, and then 
saved their access to use for ransoming hospitals and 
medical providers during the COVID-19 pandemic. 
In these attacks, the cybercriminals actively make 
decisions as they go, controlling each attack step 
based on the configurations they encounter in the 
network. They decide which data to exfiltrate, which 
TABLE OF CONTENTS    INTRODUCTION    THE STATE OF CYBERCRIME    NATION STATE THREATS    SECURITY AND THE REMOTE WORKFORCE    ACTIONABLE LEARNINGS    GLOSSARY
23
Microsoft Digital Defense Report  |  September 2020
persistence mechanisms to use for future access to 
the network, and ultimately, they even decide which 
ransomware payload to deliver. This scenario is far 
from a commodity or automated threat. Microsoft 
refers to this class of attacks as “human-operated 
ransomware” to reflect the current threat landscape 
more accurately. 
Ransomware attacks are often described in terms 
of their payload. However, Microsoft has observed 
multiple ransomware payloads being deployed by 
cybercriminals using the same infrastructure for 
concurrent campaigns. The selection of which payload 
and tools used was largely dependent on the terrain 
the cybercriminals landed in; choices were based on 
which security tools were present, whether the network 
had good cybersecurity basics in place, and which data 
the cybercriminals wanted to exfiltrate from 
the network. 
Payloads can also be varied by cybercriminals to avoid 
attribution. If a certain ransomware has been reported 
in the news and there’s heightened awareness of 
it, switching to a different payload (and sometimes 
just ransom note) can reduce the pressure on 
cybercriminals and their concern about the possibility 
of getting disrupted. In April 2020, Microsoft observed 
a prolific ransomware criminal responsible for more 
than 100 major incidents suddenly switch to using 
the infamous WannaCrypt payload at the end of their 
typical attack pattern, after attacking hospitals and 
healthcare organizations during the COVID-19 crisis.  
Ransomware criminals are intimately familiar with 
systems management concepts and the struggles IT 
departments face. Attack patterns demonstrate that 
cybercriminals know when there will be change freezes, 
such as holidays, that will impact an organization’s 
ability to make changes (such as patching) to harden 
their networks. They’re aware of when there are 
business needs that will make businesses more willing 
to pay ransoms than take downtime, such as during 
billing cycles in the health, finance, and legal industries. 
Targeting networks where critical work was needed 
during the COVID-19 pandemic, and also specifically 
attacking remote access devices during a time when 
unprecedented numbers of people were working 
remotely, are examples of this level of knowledge. 
Once inside a network, this proficiency in 
understanding protective and detective controls 
continues to contribute to the success of the 
cybercriminals. Through reconnaissance they’ll select 
machines with no or poorly configured antivirus 
software to perform most of their actions, modifying 
their techniques if they sense they might be detected. 
Unfortunately, there are also numerous examples of 
situations where cybercriminals simply performed 
their attacks as they wished, with poor cyber hygiene 
leaving no blocking controls in their way. This can 
happen in spite of multiple stages of their attack 
causing detections in antivirus and endpoint detection 
and response products, signifying cybercriminals’ 
understanding of the challenges modern IT 
departments and SOCs face in rapidly triaging and 
responding to fast-paced attackers.
In some instances, 
cybercriminals went 
from initial entry to 
ransoming the entire 
network in less than 
45 minutes. 
23
Microsoft Digital Defense Report  |  September 2020
TABLE OF CONTENTS    INTRODUCTION    THE STATE OF CYBERCRIME    NATION STATE THREATS    SECURITY AND THE REMOTE WORKFORCE    ACTIONABLE LEARNINGS    GLOSSARY
24
Microsoft Digital Defense Report  |  September 2020
5 https://www.bleepingcomputer.com/news/security/fbi-says-140-million-paid-to-ransomware-offers-defense-tips/
While human-operated ransomware campaigns vary in 
their tools and ultimate choice of ransomware payload, 
all of them need to operate in a similar manner to 
effectively enter a network and move laterally to 
achieve their goals. While initial entry vectors can 
vary, such as through unpatched vulnerabilities, the 
biggest factor leading to success in moving through 
multiple systems and deploying ransomware is 
the cybercriminal’s ability to gain access to highly 
privileged account credentials. Cybercriminals rely on 
off-the-shelf tools used for systems administration 
or security testing and built-in tools to move from 
machine to machine, but they need administrative 
credentials, such as those of a domain administrator, 
to gain access. To deploy ransomware across an 
entire organization, cybercriminals must capture a 
credential and a system with the rights to do this. 
Domain administrator accounts are often used for 
their ability to utilize Active Directory policies and file 
shares intended for software distribution to maliciously 
deploy devastating ransomware payloads.
 
Over 70% of human-operated 
ransomware attacks in the past 
year originated with Remote 
Desktop Protocol (RDP) 
brute force.
5 
By narrowing the focus for IT departments to the 
overlapping techniques used by attackers regardless 
of which payload they deploy, defensive strategies can 
be moved from a reactionary detection-only option, 
which changes with every variation in ransomware, 
to simple steps that provide significant ROI across 
multiple classes of attacks. 
Learn more: 
Human-operated ransomware attacks: A preventable 
disaster 2020/03/05
Ransomware groups continue to target healthcare, 
critical services; here’s how to reduce risk 2020/04/28
Ransomware operations attack pattern detail observed by Microsoft Threat Protection 
intelligence in early 2020. Payloads might vary, but mitigations apply across all varieties.Best practice icon: our recommended controls.
 Two steps to follow: Diagram of ransomware operations attack patterns.Infographic of steps to follow for protecting against ransomware. Know your perimeter and practice credential hygiene.
TABLE OF CONTENTS    INTRODUCTION    THE STATE OF CYBERCRIME    NATION STATE THREATS    SECURITY AND THE REMOTE WORKFORCE    ACTIONABLE LEARNINGS    GLOSSARY
25
Microsoft Digital Defense Report  |  September 2020
Malware: The evolution of banking trojans
For busy security operations centers, keeping up 
with the volume of alerts and data coming in from 
various security tools and monitoring platforms 
can be difficult. This so-called alert fatigue is a 
huge factor in organizations not being able to 
respond quickly and accurately enough to security 
incidents—a factor cybercriminals are acutely 
aware of. When faced with deciding which alerts 
to prioritize, many SOCs will prioritize threats 
perceived as targeted (such as nation state–related 
threats) over those which are “commodity,” a term 
used to describe malware that isn’t customized or 
intended for use on specific targeted networks. 
This assumption that commodity threats are less 
impactful to a business, combined with the security 
industry’s naming convention for threats, leads to 
confusion that cybercriminals of all skill sets will 
use to their advantage. From nation state attackers 
utilizing off-the-shelf tools intended for Red Teams 
to major criminal operations pivoting their behaviors 
in well-known malware families, the desire to blend 
in and not be remediated has turned some of these 
assumptions upside down. Nowhere was this more 
impactful in the past year than in the category of 
banking trojans. 
Judging malware by its family or detection name is a 
lot like judging a book by its cover—it might not tell 
you what the malware is capable of. Banking trojans, 
intended to steal credentials from online banking 
and finance sites, have been a consistent threat in 
the landscape over the past decade. The nature 
of many banking trojans was always modular and 
extensible, with additional modules and capabilities 
deployed or downloaded after the initial infection. In 
the past few years, the potential of this capability for 
attacks against enterprise environments, where the 
banking trojan malware might not be immediately 
triaged or removed, was realized with devastating 
success by several major banking trojans. The two 
banking trojans most infamous for adopting this 
new model are Emotet and Trickbot.
Originally intended to steal banking data, 
components in Emotet and Trickbot reporting IP 
addresses and DNS ranges back to the operators 
revealed just how many major networks their 
malware was installed on and checking in from. In 
early efforts to capitalize on this network access, 
team-ups of malware payloads were seen. Examples 
include Emotet’s leading to Trickbot infections that 
utilized the Eternal Blue vulnerability for lateral 
movement and Emotet’s downloading second-
stage trojans with credential theft capabilities such 
as Qakbot or IceID. This piggybacking has led to 
disastrous results for organizations, as these 
Trickbot banking trojan prevalence, April 2020 Global map depicting Trickbot banking trojan prevalence.
TABLE OF CONTENTS    INTRODUCTION    THE STATE OF CYBERCRIME    NATION STATE THREATS    SECURITY AND THE REMOTE WORKFORCE    ACTIONABLE LEARNINGS    GLOSSARY
26
Microsoft Digital Defense Report  |  September 2020
second-stage malware payloads used brute force 
attacks against Active Directory passwords, causing 
massive downtime and network outages. Trickbot 
reached the most devastating stage in this evolution 
in 2019 when the operators began to utilize the 
Trickbot install base to deploy the Ryuk ransomware. 
Taking advantage of Trickbot’s prevalent install base, 
operators select networks that seem valuable and 
advantageous to them at the time: the ones that 
will pay a high ransom or have interesting data. 
They then use the Trickbot implant to download 
additional tools, such as Cobalt Strike, and transform 
into a human-operated ransomware campaign.
Banking trojans have succeeded by being 
underestimated and by using their breadth of 
infections to their advantage, selectively targeting 
networks for follow-on ransomware, data 
exfiltration, or sale of access on the dark web. 
Organizations can help with alert fatigue and 
bombardments of similar threats by focusing on the 
behaviors of the malware and delivery mechanisms, 
and by mitigating the issues that allow entry into 
their networks. Most banking trojans are delivered 
via email attachments and especially via macro-
enabled Microsoft Office documents.Best practice icon: our recommended controls.
 Simple solutions for blocking malicious macros, 
such as using trusted locations, can dramatically 
decrease an attack surface and reduce the risk of 
dangerous post-infection activities.
Learn more:
New action to disrupt world’s largest online criminal 
network 2020/03/10
An inside look at the global battle with botnets 
2020/07/24Flowchart of Trickbot being delivered through email, and ending with ransomware payload being delivered.
TABLE OF CONTENTS    INTRODUCTION    THE STATE OF CYBERCRIME    NATION STATE THREATS    SECURITY AND THE REMOTE WORKFORCE    ACTIONABLE LEARNINGS    GLOSSARY
27
Microsoft Digital Defense Report  |  September 2020
6 https://blogs.bing.com/search/march-2020/Stay-informed-on-the-coronavirus-pandemic-with-Bing-and-Microsoft-News
7 https://www.msn.com/en-gb/news
8 https://www.bing.com
There’s so much COVID-19 commentary circulating 
online that even those with the keenest eye for 
misinformation can sometimes find it tricky to 
separate fact from fiction.
That’s why Microsoft and LinkedIn, along with other 
technology companies are working to keep millions 
of people connected while also combating fraud and 
misinformation about the pandemic. We’re giving 
prominence to authoritative content across platforms 
and coordinating with government healthcare 
agencies around the world to share critical updates.
Learn more: Data, supplies, community: How 
Microsoft is supporting efforts to combat COVID-19
How is Microsoft highlighting content from 
credible sources? 
We’re taking new steps across our services, 
including Bing, LinkedIn, Microsoft News, and 
Microsoft Advertising. On Microsoft News and 
LinkedIn, we’re creating curated resources based 
on official guidance from organizations such as the 
WHO and the CDC. We’re also aggregating data 
on case locations,⁶ infection prevention, and more 
from authoritative sources and presenting it in an 
accessible, easy-to-use way across Microsoft News⁷ 
and Bing.⁸
Bing users in multiple countries can access 
reliable health information through public service 
announcements for some COVID-19 queries. They 
can also find reliable information in answers near 
the top of search results pages and in sidebar 
windows. In the United States—and soon in other 
countries—information is provided on testing 
protocols and locations for anyone who thinks they 
have symptoms of the virus. 
Bing is also prioritizing trusted news sources and 
piloting algorithmic defenses to help promote 
reliable information about COVID-19. 
On LinkedIn, a global team of more than 65 
experienced journalists is curating news and 
perspectives about the coronavirus pandemic 
from trusted sources. The team is spotlighting this 
coverage in a “Special Report: Coronavirus” box on 
the LinkedIn homepage, with relevant and accurate 
stories. They’re also reaching audiences through the 
Daily Rundown news summary, which reaches 46 
million people, in 96 countries, in nine languages. 
When users search for coronavirus-related terms or 
hashtags, they’ll see trusted information modules at 
the top of the results page.
How is Microsoft helping to surface credible 
reporting on the crisis? 
Microsoft News has COVID-19 information hubs in 
39 markets across the globe. An experienced team 
edits content from more than 4,500 trusted news 
brands, including The New York Times, Reuters, and 
the Wall Street Journal. These hubs also contain links 
to official tools and information from sources like 
the WHO and the CDC. When people search Bing 
for “coronavirus updates” and related queries, it will 
point to these hubs in some news answers.
Learn more: Microsoft to join White House-led 
consortium to fight COVID-19
What measures is Microsoft taking in relation to 
advertising?
Microsoft’s Sensitive Advertising policy and 
LinkedIn’s Advertising policies prohibit ads that 
capitalize on the pandemic and company pages 
that improperly sell medical supplies and solutions. 
These policies allow Microsoft and LinkedIn to 
remove or limit advertising and company pages in 
response to a sensitive tragedy, disaster, death, or 
high-profile news event and are being applied to 
block ads related directly to COVID-19. In certain 
instances, advertising related to the pandemic 
will only be allowed from trusted sources. Any 
advertising that exploits the coronavirus crisis for 
commercial gain, spreads misinformation, or might 
pose a danger to users’ safety is prohibited.
What is the role of the Digital Crimes Unit at 
Microsoft?
Our Digital Crimes Unit is also analyzing data 
regarding cyberthreats associated with malware, 
phishing, and fraud. Between late March and the 
beginning of July 2020, we’ve reported 13,971 
potentially malicious COVID-19-themed domains 
and 23,123 URLs to the proper authorities so that 
they can be taken down and, where possible, the 
individuals behind them prosecuted.
Who else is Microsoft working with?
Teams within Microsoft Research are collaborating 
closely with Professor Jacob Shapiro, director of the 
Empirical Studies of Conflict Project at Princeton 
University, to characterize the types and extent 
of misinformation and disinformation narratives 
online related to COVID-19. This work helps our 
researchers, product teams, and industry partners 
understand the global information environment our 
customers are exposed to.
Promoting trusted information
TABLE OF CONTENTS    INTRODUCTION    THE STATE OF CYBERCRIME    NATION STATE THREATS    SECURITY AND THE REMOTE WORKFORCE    ACTIONABLE LEARNINGS    GLOSSARY
28
Microsoft Digital Defense Report  |  September 2020
In focus: Supply chain security
For years Microsoft has been tracking threat actors who use supply chain compromise as an entry point 
for attacks. Supply chain attacks are particularly insidious because they take advantage of the trust that 
users and organizations place in the hardware, software, and third-party services they use. 
The increased number of supply chain attacks over the past few years has become an important topic in many cybersecurity conversations and is a growing 
source of concern across the global supply chain. The past 12 months have been an unprecedented time of focus on supply chain security, given the 
acceleration of interdependencies resulting from changes in global remote workforces in response to COVID-19, as well as new and evolving regulations 
in the United States and Europe. 
In this section, we focus our observations and recommendations for supply chain security on third-party services, open-source software, and IoT 
hardware and conclude with a look at changes to the regulatory landscape.
Third-party services
Through its engagements in assisting customers 
who have been victims of cybersecurity intrusions, 
the Microsoft Detection and Response Team has 
observed an uptick in supply chain attacks between 
July 2019 and March 2020. These attacks include 
targeting IT service providers to get a foothold in 
their customers’ systems. Although there was an 
increase, supply chain attacks represented a relatively 
small percentage of DART engagements overall.
As organizations grant widespread administrative 
or system access to external entities, managed 
service providers (MSPs) and IT outsourcers become 
high-value targets for attackers. All too often, IT 
outsourcers or MSPs aren’t threat modeled with 
the same diligence as internal systems. Over the 
past year, there have been numerous high-profile 
compromises of MSPs to deliver ransomware, 
exfiltrate data, or provide financial gain to attackers 
in some way. These attacks follow a common 
pattern of entering the service provider’s network 
via phishing email or through a network weakness 
with RDP brute force, and then moving laterally to 
gain administrative privileges. Once the attackers 
have gained full access to the service provider, they 
can access the customers via the same legitimate 
support channels and accounts used for remote 
support or software maintenance.Best practice icon: our recommended controls.
 To limit the risk of attack, organizations should 
vet their service providers to ensure they follow 
best practices for least privilege access on accounts 
and services. Access to the network for support 
should be monitored and secured via multi-factor 
authentication (MFA) and just-in-time access.
Learn more:
Guarding against supply chain attacks—Part 1: 
The big picture 2019/10/16
Guarding against supply chain attacks—Part 2: 
Hardware risks 2020/02/03
Guarding against supply chain attacks—Part 3: 
How software becomes compromised 2020/03/11
Defending the power grid against supply chain 
attacks—Part 1: The risk defined 2020/02/18
Defending the power grid against supply chain 
attacks—Part 2: Securing hardware and software 
DART incident response initial attack vector
(June 2019–March 2020) Graph depicting supply chain compromise as 7 percent of initial attack vectors as seen by the detection and response team.
TABLE OF CONTENTS    INTRODUCTION    THE STATE OF CYBERCRIME    NATION STATE THREATS    SECURITY AND THE REMOTE WORKFORCE    ACTIONABLE LEARNINGS    GLOSSARY
29
Microsoft Digital Defense Report  |  September 2020
9 Data for this from modulecounts.com
Third-party and open-source software
Given the diversity of solutions and services 
provided by our third-party ecosystem, Microsoft 
deploys flexible methodologies. For example, we 
ensure that licensors of commercial third-party 
software adhere to the fundamental tenets of our 
Security Development Lifecycle. 
We recognize that open-source software requires 
a different approach. We apply security controls to 
the software itself, vetting it by using a combination 
of automated tools and manual processes before 
allowing it to be used in a product or service. 
Modern software projects are heavily dependent 
on open-source software, from operating systems 
to widgets, and from back-end data analysis to 
front-end user interfaces. There are well over 2 
million9  open-source components available for 
developers to use, and according to the GitHub 
State of the Octoverse report (2019), the average 
software project depends on more than 200 other 
components. Open-source software has provided 
great benefits, allowing developers to focus more 
on building software applications and less on 
reinventing common components. 
However, this pervasiveness has attracted the 
attention of attackers, who in recent years have 
increasingly turned their focus to the open-source 
software supply chain. While traditional security 
vulnerabilities have always affected the software 
supply chain, attackers can now target an ecosystem 
impacting multiple users at once, with more 
damaging results. For example:
•	 An attacker hijacks the account of the publisher 
of a popular package and publishes a malicious 
update, such as in the case of the npm bb-
builder package, which was discovered a year 
after it was compromised. Unfortunately, only 
12.84% of GitHub accounts and 9.3% of npm 
maintainers use MFA to protect their accounts, 
which is one of the most effective ways to 
mitigate the risk of account takeover. Thankfully, 
this percentage is higher for well-established 
open-source projects: 52% of maintainers 
have enabled two-factor authentication for 
open-source projects with more than 100 
contributors.
•	 An attacker publishes a package with a name 
similar to a popular package and waits for some 
developers to accidentally type the wrong package 
name (known as “typosquatting”), obtaining the 
attacker’s malicious version. Examples include 
the python3-dateutil PyPI module and the 
725 malicious packages from the RubyGems 
ecosystem that mined crypto-currency.
•	 An attacker publishes a malicious package 
and waits for developers to install and use 
it. Examples include the npm 1337qq-js and 
m-backdoor modules.
•	 An attacker finds credentials, API keys, or other 
secrets that were accidentally published by an 
open-source project author. Each month, 8% 
of all public GitHub repositories are found to 
contain a potential secret, with many of these 
automatically detected and revoked.Best practice icon: our recommended controls.
 At Microsoft, we use open-source software 
extensively in our products and services and have 
built a program that uses people, process, and 
technology to identify and manage security risk 
at scale. At the center of this program is a system 
that automatically identifies open-source software 
components and performs certain checks to ensure 
they’re free of known security defects. This is an 
essential first step to using open-source safely. It 
enables us to accurately identify the right open-
source components to use and understand whether 
they contain vulnerabilities. It’s important that 
this process be automated as much as possible. 
Fortunately, there are many tools, commercial and 
open source, that can help, including GitHub’s 
Dependency Graph and Dependabot alerts. On top 
of this, we add processes for manually reviewing 
critical open-source packages and scanning 
millions of open-source components for signs of 
compromise. 
 Telemetry icon: here’s what we're seeing.
 Over the past year, we’ve found that nearly 
5% of the open-source packages used at Microsoft 
had at least one reported security vulnerability, 
and about a quarter of those reported security 
vulnerabilities were categorized as high risk. 
Automation is essential to promptly alerting affected 
engineering teams and tracking remediation 
activities. According to GitHub, automating alerts 
in vulnerable dependencies can reduce the average 
time to remediate by over 75%. As open-source 
software is a growing and increasingly critical part of 
modern products and platforms, it should be held to 
the same standards as proprietary software.
Learn more:
Collaborating to improve open source security—
How the ecosystem is stepping up - RSA Conference 
2020/02/28
Microsoft Security Engineering: Open source security
Threats, Risks, and Mitigations in the Open Source 
Ecosystem, Open Source Security Coalition
TABLE OF CONTENTS    INTRODUCTION    THE STATE OF CYBERCRIME    NATION STATE THREATS    SECURITY AND THE REMOTE WORKFORCE    ACTIONABLE LEARNINGS    GLOSSARY
30
Microsoft Digital Defense Report  |  September 2020
IoT security insights 
from honeypots 
There were 26.66 billion active Internet of Things 
(IoT) devices in 2019, and it’s estimated that by 
2022, there will be 50 billion consumer IoT devices 
worldwide.10 While manufacturers of IoT devices 
have a responsibility to design secure products, 
this rapid proliferation has made these products 
appealing targets for a growing volume of 
cyberattacks. 
To gather intelligence about attacks on remote 
terminals, routers, and IoT devices, Microsoft Threat 
Intelligence Center (MSTIC) deploys honeypots 
(intended to mimic likely targets of cybercriminals) 
over Azure and a range of other cloud providers. 
The honeypots engage attackers to interact with 
them using various known protocols. Security teams 
across the company analyze this data to discover 
new trends and emerging threats. 
The IoT security research team is one of the teams 
that processes the data, reverse-engineers malicious 
samples, and helps to draw end-to-end attack 
scenarios. This work helps us discover trends and 
better understand the risks of using and deploying 
IoT devices.Telemetry icon: here’s what we're seeing.
 Summary of findings from the IoT security 
research team:
•	 IoT threats are constantly expanding and 
evolving. Honeypot data in the first half of 2020 
indicate an approximate 35% increase in total 
attack volume compared to the second half 
of 2019. 
•	 Vulnerability management plays a crucial 
role in securing IoT assets, because when a 
new vulnerability is discovered it’s rapidly 
adopted by malicious actors. These actors take 
advantage of the time it takes to patch and 
update the firmware. Various scanners and 
passive network-based profiling technologies 
make this malicious capability achievable and 
easy to deploy. 
Total attacks on honeypotsGraph depicting upward trend of attacks on honeypots, every 6 months from July 2019 through July 2020.Telemetry icon: here’s what we're seeing.
 Analysis details:
•	 The most abused protocols we see are Telnet, 
MS SQL, and Secure Shell (SSH), with RDP and 
Virtual Network Computing (VNC) also 
being notable.
•	 The most common attack scenario includes 
using default credentials to obtain a shell access 
to download and execute malware. All kinds of 
devices are being targeted; honeypots exposed 
malware for many types of architectures, 
including but not limited to x86, MIPS, MIPSEL, 
SH4, ARM4/5/6/7, and SPARC.
•	 The default credentials are associated with a 
variety of different products such as routers, 
remote terminals, IP cameras, and multimedia 
systems.
•	 Our analysis indicates three typical infiltration 
techniques:
Misconfiguration: Use of default passwords and 
internet-facing listening ports to get remote 
shell access to the devices.
Supply chain: In one analysis, an IP camera 
module manufacturer introduced remote 
technical support capabilities in the default 
firmware. These capabilities were reverse-
engineered and used by attackers to gain a 
remote root shell on the affected devices. 
Because the firmware was implemented without 
modifications by dozens of IP camera vendors, 
millions of devices were potentially exposed. 
Honeypot data indicate a campaign that’s 
actively trying to exploit this vulnerability.
Vulnerability exploitation: Malware is 
weaponizing well-known exploits to propagate 
to new devices. Analyzed samples include 
exploits for various router vendors, IP cameras, 
and multimedia systems.
Abused protocols in January–March 2020Chart depicting the types of abused protocols seen in honeypots in January through March 2020.
Recommendations:Best practice icon: our recommended controls.
 Map IoT assets and apply security policies to 
reduce the attack surface and the potential risk of 
implementing IoT technologies. Best practice icon: our recommended controls.
 Make sure to use a different network for IoT 
devices and be familiar with all exposed interfaces. 
Previous analyses at Microsoft have shown that 
even the IoT vendor might be unaware of remote 
administration capabilities that might be introduced 
in a module’s firmware (which is often created by 
another manufacturer).
10 https://cybertechaccord.org/iot-security/
TABLE OF CONTENTS    INTRODUCTION    THE STATE OF CYBERCRIME    NATION STATE THREATS    SECURITY AND THE REMOTE WORKFORCE    ACTIONABLE LEARNINGS    GLOSSARY
31
Microsoft Digital Defense Report  |  September 2020
IoT/OT Security insights from CyberX “2020 Global IoT/ICS Risk Report”   
Operational technology (OT) networks used in 
industrial and critical infrastructure environments 
have traditionally been air-gapped from corporate IT 
networks and the internet, but digital transformation 
has increased both the connectivity and number of 
devices in these environments, leading to higher risk.  
Further increasing risk, many of the legacy IoT/
OT protocols and embedded devices in these 
environments were designed years ago—lacking 
modern controls such as encryption, strong 
authentication, and hardened software stacks—
while the OT networks themselves are often flat, 
unsegmented, and lacking zero-trust policies.
Adversaries targeting this expanded attack 
surface can cause substantial corporate impact, 
including safety and environmental incidents, 
costly production downtime, and theft of sensitive 
intellectual property such as information about 
proprietary formulas and manufacturing processes.
OT cyber risk was recently highlighted in an alert 
(AA20-205A) from the U.S. Cybersecurity and 
Infrastructure Security Agency (CISA) and the 
National Security Agency (NSA). The alert was 
titled “NSA and CISA Recommend Immediate 
Actions to Reduce Exposure Across Operational 
Technologies and Control Systems.” In the alert they 
stated that “Over recent months, cyber actors have 
demonstrated their continued willingness to conduct 
malicious cyber activity against critical infrastructure 
(CI) by exploiting internet-accessible operational 
technology (OT) assets.”
CyberX is an IoT/OT cybersecurity company 
recently acquired by Microsoft to help clients 
gain broader and deeper visibility into their IoT/
OT risk. In its “2020 Global IoT/ICS Risk Report,” 
CyberX analyzed data collected from more than 
1,800 production industrial control system (ICS) 
networks, across diverse industries including energy 
utilities, manufacturing, pharmaceuticals, chemicals, 
and oil and gas. The data was analyzed using 
CyberX’s passive, agentless monitoring technology 
and proprietary Network Traffic Analysis (NTA) 
algorithms.11Telemetry icon: here’s what we're seeing.
 Some of the key insights from this report 
include:
•	 71% of sites have unsupported Microsoft 
Windows systems, such as Windows 2000, 
Windows XP, and Windows 7, that no 
longer receive regular security patches from 
Microsoft, making them especially vulnerable 
to ransomware and destructive malware. Even 
excluding Windows 7 systems which became 
unsupported in January 2020, the percentage of 
sites with unsupported Windows systems is still 
quite high at 62%.
•	 64% of sites have unencrypted passwords 
traversing their networks, making it easy for 
adversaries to compromise systems simply by 
sniffing the network traffic.
•	 66% of sites aren’t automatically updating 
Windows systems with the latest antivirus 
definitions.
•	 54% of sites have devices that can be remotely 
accessed from internal networks by using 
standard management protocols such as RDP, 
SSH, and VNC, enabling attackers to pivot 
undetected from initial footholds to other 
critical assets. For example, during the TRITON 
attack on the safety systems in a petrochemical 
facility, the adversary leveraged RDP to pivot 
from the IT network to the OT network in order 
to deploy its targeted zero-day malware.
11 The analysis was performed on an anonymized and aggregated set of metadata with identifying information removed. Rigorous attention was paid to preserving the confidentiality of sensitive customer information.
TABLE OF CONTENTS    INTRODUCTION    THE STATE OF CYBERCRIME    NATION STATE THREATS    SECURITY AND THE REMOTE WORKFORCE    ACTIONABLE LEARNINGS    GLOSSARY
32
Microsoft Digital Defense Report  |  September 2020Best practice icon: our recommended controls.
 Microsoft recommends the following actions to better secure and manage the risk associated with IoT and OT devices:
Avoid exposing IoT and OT devices directly to the internet. Avoid 
exposure or create custom access controls to limit exposure. This is true 
of incoming and outgoing network controls to protect against intrusion 
and exfiltration.
Map the digital terrain. Create a current map of your network and 
all the IoT/OT devices connected to it. Understand how devices are 
communicating with each other and other parts of your corporate 
network.
Focus on mitigating risk for your “crown jewel” processes. Use 
threat modeling (via automated attack simulation techniques, Red 
Teaming, and/or tabletop exercises) to predict the most likely paths 
adversaries would take to compromise your most critical or “crown 
jewel” processes. These are the processes in which compromise 
would cause major financial impact owing to production downtime, 
major safety incidents, or theft of intellectual property. Then focus on 
mitigating risk to those specific attack paths by addressing configuration 
errors, patching, network segmentation, or compensating controls such 
as continuous network security monitoring.
Implement Zero Trust IoT/OT strategies. Use a separate or segmented 
network for IoT and OT devices. Consider more granular segmentation 
policies within the OT network itself, across multiple layers of the Purdue 
model. Audit and revalidate identities and credentials with authorized 
access to IoT devices, users, and processes.
Require approval and cataloging of any IoT/OT devices. Implement a 
policy for all devices running in your environment.
Centralize asset/configuration/patch management. Conduct routine 
asset discovery and configuration/patch audits against deployed IoT and 
OT devices.
Remove IT/OT silos. Modern attacks often cross IT/OT boundaries. For 
example, in the TRITON attack on the safety systems in a petrochemical 
facility, the adversary compromised OT remote access credentials from a 
Windows system on the IT network before pivoting to the OT network. 
Additionally, it’s not always clear who’s responsible for the security of the 
OT network—is it the IT security organization, the OT organization, or 
various third-party organizations that manage and maintain automation 
equipment in these facilities? Ensure the lines of responsibility are 
clear, and also that the corporate SOC has continuous visibility into 
potential OT security threats—via their security information and event 
management (SIEM)/Security Orchestration, Automation and Response 
(SOAR) system—so they can quickly detect multistage IT/OT attacks and 
stop them before they cause harm.
Continuously monitor for unusual or unauthorized behavior. It’s no 
longer sufficient to rely on static indicators of compromise to detect 
attacks. Adversaries are increasingly using “living off the land” tactics in 
the OT domain, just as in the IT domain. This change in strategy requires 
vigilant monitoring for unusual or unauthorized behavior such as new 
remote access connections, code or configuration changes made to 
programmable logic controllers, printers browsing SharePoint sites, or 
even new devices being connected to the network for the first time.
Plan for incident response. Define policies for isolation of IoT and OT 
devices, preservation of device data, ability to maintain logs of device 
traffic, and capture of device images for forensic investigation.
Don’t forget third parties. If your devices are deployed/managed by 
a third party, include explicit terms in your contracts detailing security 
practices to be followed and audits that report security status and 
health of all managed devices. Ensure third parties are using secure 
remote access (VPNs, strong authentication, and rotating passwords) to 
access your network. Where possible, define service-level terms in IoT 
and OT device vendor contracts that set a mutually acceptable window 
for investigative response and forensic analysis to any compromise 
involving their product.
Recommendations for securing IoT/OT Networks
TABLE OF CONTENTS    INTRODUCTION    THE STATE OF CYBERCRIME    NATION STATE THREATS    SECURITY AND THE REMOTE WORKFORCE    ACTIONABLE LEARNINGS    GLOSSARY
33
Microsoft Digital Defense Report  |  September 2020
Create a manageable OT Windows upgrade schedule. IIoT/OT 
systems are typically more difficult to upgrade than corporate IT 
systems. Many IoT/OT networks run 24x7 and have limited maintenance 
windows. Windows systems often host legacy OT applications that 
would need to be extensively tested or rewritten after an upgrade. 
Food and Drug Administration–validated systems in the pharmaceutical 
industry require a new cycle of validation after being upgraded.
While creating a software and hardware upgrade schedule is more 
difficult for OT than it is for IT, it isn’t impossible given the appropriate 
top-down management attention and resources. The inescapable truth 
is that no matter how difficult they are to upgrade, legacy Windows 
systems introduce risk to your organization’s people, production, 
and profits.
If you can’t update your Windows systems, ensure you’re aware of all 
legacy Windows systems in your facilities and implement compensating 
controls such as continuous monitoring to quickly detect when they’re 
being targeted.
Secure your OT Windows endpoints. In the past, automation vendors 
prohibited end-user organizations from deploying endpoint security 
controls such as antivirus protection on their systems, but this situation 
has changed. Ensure your OT Windows endpoints are running modern 
endpoint protection controls to quickly detect malware and prevent 
unauthorized applications from running.
Learn more:
CyberX Global 2020 IoT/ICS Risk Report
US CISA/NSA Alert 2020/07/23
Staying safe and smart in the Internet of Things era 2020/05/14
Cyber Tech Accord
Azure IoT security
Corporate IoT: A path to intrusion 2019/08/05
Microsoft logistics team gains supply chain visibility using Azure IoT 
Central 2020/01/11 
TABLE OF CONTENTS    INTRODUCTION    THE STATE OF CYBERCRIME    NATION STATE THREATS    SECURITY AND THE REMOTE WORKFORCE    ACTIONABLE LEARNINGS    GLOSSARY
34
Microsoft Digital Defense Report  |  September 2020
12 The DoD simultaneously released Appendices A-F for the CMMC and an Overview Briefing.
Evolving regulations to manage supply chain risk  
Generally, a good supply chain risk management 
strategy is a coordinated, organization-wide effort 
to identify, monitor, detect, and mitigate threats to 
supply chain continuity and profitability. Threats 
to the supply chain include cost volatility, material 
shortages, supplier financial issues and failures, and 
natural and manmade disasters. 
An increased regulatory focus on supply chain 
security has led to requests for Supply Chain Risk 
Management Assessments and the U.S. Department 
of Defense (DoD) defining a new Cybersecurity 
Maturity Model Certification (CMMC), intended to 
improve supply chain security and the cybersecurity 
posture of the defense industrial base. Released 
in January 2020, the new CMMC framework and 
certification will require DoD contractors and 
subcontractors to obtain third-party certification of 
their cybersecurity maturity.12
The CMMC framework contains five maturity levels 
starting with basic safeguarding at Level 1, moving 
to broad protection of Controlled Unclassified 
Information at Level 3, and culminating with 
reducing the risk from Advanced Persistent Threats 
at Levels 4 and 5. Each level is cumulative and 
designed to provide increased assurance that a 
contractor can adequately protect certain types of 
sensitive information.
34
Microsoft Digital Defense Report  |  September 2020
TABLE OF CONTENTS    INTRODUCTION    THE STATE OF CYBERCRIME    NATION STATE THREATS    SECURITY AND THE REMOTE WORKFORCE    ACTIONABLE LEARNINGS    GLOSSARY
35
Microsoft Digital Defense Report  |  September 2020
Machine learning in security   
As machine learning takes an increasingly central role in the operations and products of organizations around 
the world, it’s increasingly vulnerable to malicious actors. At the same time, it’s becoming an invaluable tool in 
combatting cybercrime. Here are four trends to consider when defending against attacks on ML systems, and in 
using ML to defend against alert fatigue and make threat detection more effective and efficient.  
Preparing your industry for attacks on machine learning systems   
Adversarial machine learning, the name given to 
efforts to attack ML systems, is a growing reality 
in the software industry. Google,13 Microsoft,14 
and IBM15 have signaled—separate from their 
commitment to securing their traditional software 
systems—specific initiatives to secure their ML 
systems. 
In February 2019, Gartner, the leading industry 
market research firm, published its first report 
on adversarial machine learning,16 advising that 
“Application leaders must anticipate and prepare to 
mitigate potential risks of data corruption, model 
theft, and adversarial samples.” 
There are good reasons for industries to consider 
securing their ML systems:
1.	 In the last three years, companies heavily 
invested in ML (Google, Amazon, Microsoft, 
Tesla) faced some degree of adversarial 
attacks18-21—a bellwether of the rise of 
adversarial ML. 
2.	 Standards organizations like ISO22 and NIST,23 
whose endorsements have been historically 
sought after in the industry,24 are forming 
certification rubrics to assess security of ML 
systems. Governments are also showing signs 
of increased appetite for regulations on ML 
security, with the earliest regulatory activity 
likely to be in the EU and the United States. A 
complete checklist has been released in the 
EU to assess trustworthiness of ML systems, 
which will potentially form the basis of new 
regulations.25
3.	 ML is rapidly becoming core to organizations’ 
value propositions (with a projected annual 
growth rate of 39% for ML investments in 
2020),26 and it’s only natural that organizations 
invest in protecting their crown jewels.
35
Microsoft Digital Defense Report  |  September 2020
13 “Responsible AI Practices.” [Online]. Available: https://ai.google/responsibilities/responsible-ai-practices/?category=security; 14 “Securing the Future of AI and ML at Microsoft.” [Online]. Available: https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/
security/securing-artificial-intelligence-machine-learning; 15 “Adversarial Machine Learning,” July 2016. [Online]. Available: https://ibm.co/36fhajg ; 16 S. A. Gartner Inc., “Anticipate Data Manipulation Security Risks to AI Pipelines.” 
[Online]. Available: https://www.gartner.com/doc/3899783; 17 https://arxiv.org/abs/2002.05646; 18 A. Athalye, L. Engstrom, A. Ilyas, and K. Kwok, “Synthesizing robust adversarial examples,” arXiv preprint arXiv:1707.07397, 2017.; 19 J. 
Li, S. Qu, X. Li, J. Szurley, J. Z. Kolter, and F. Metze, “Adversarial Music: Real World Audio Adversary Against Wake-word Detection System,” Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems, 2019, pp. 11 908–11 918.; 20 P. L. Microsoft, 
“Learning from Tay’s introduction,” March 2016. [Online]. Available: https://blogs.microsoft.com/blog/2016/03/ 25/learning-tays-introduction/; 21 “Experimental Security Research of Tesla Autopilot,” Tech. Rep. [Online]. Available: https://
bit.ly/37oGdla; 22 “ISO/IEC JTC 1/SC 42 Artificial Intelligence,” January 2019. [Online]. Available: https://www.iso.org/committee/6794475.html; 23 “AI Standards.” [Online]. Available: https://www.nist.gov/topics/artificial-intelligence/
ai-standards; 24 R. Von Solms, “Information security management: Why standards are important,” Information Management & Computer Security, vol. 7, no. 1, pp. 50–58, 1999.; 25 “Ethics guidelines for trustworthy ai,” November 2019. 
[Online]. Available: https://ec.europa.eu/digital-single-market/en/news/ethics-guidelines-trustworthy-ai; 26 “2018 AI predictions-8 insights to shape business strategy,” Tech. Rep. [Online]. Available: https://www.pwc.com/us/en/advisory-
services/assets/ai-predictions-2018-report.pdf
Model poisoning is 
the top perceived 
threat against 
ML for business 
decision makers.
17
TABLE OF CONTENTS    INTRODUCTION    THE STATE OF CYBERCRIME    NATION STATE THREATS    SECURITY AND THE REMOTE WORKFORCE    ACTIONABLE LEARNINGS    GLOSSARY
36
Microsoft Digital Defense Report  |  September 2020
Despite the compelling reasons to secure ML systems, in a survey spanning 28 different organizations, we 
found that most industry practitioners are yet to come to terms with adversarial machine learning.27 Of the 28 
organizations surveyed, 25 indicated that they don’t have the right tools in place to secure their ML systems and 
are explicitly looking for guidance.
Attacks on machine learning systems
Poisoning attack	
Attacker contaminates the training phase of ML systems to get intended result
Model stealing	
Attacker is able to recover the model by constructing careful queries  
Model inversion	
Attacker recovers the secret features used in the model through careful queriesBest practice icon: our recommended controls.
 Recommendations: 
•	 Perform threat modeling on ML systems, just as you would security software. 
•	 Prepare your security analysts to identify and respond to such attacks using the bug bar. 
Leveraging machine learning to reduce alert fatigue   
ML and alert fatigue 
Alert fatigue is a huge concern, as security analysts face the burden of triaging and sifting through a sea of 
alerts, often correlating alerts from different products manually or using a traditional correlation engine. One of 
the top challenges in SOCs today is finding the balance: identifying unique, advanced threats while maintaining 
a manageable number of incidents. With the increasing amount of data and diversity of sources collected in a 
SOC, the defender community must harness the power of ML to address this challenge. 
Security and compliance products with ML built in28 can help security analysts, data scientists, and engineers act 
more efficiently and effectively by enabling them to focus on the threats that matter. Identifying threats that fly 
under the radar while maintaining a low level of alert fatigue is achieved by incorporating graph-based ML and 
a probabilistic kill chain (likelihood of a series of activities being part of an attack flow). Telemetry icon: here’s what we're seeing.
 ML can stitch together millions of lower fidelity anomalous signals into just tens of high-fidelity alerts. 
In internal evaluations and measurements with customers, we found a median 90% reduction in alert fatigue 
using a Microsoft technology called Fusion. In one application, Fusion evaluates tens of thousands of suspicious 
uses of Tor browsers and hundreds of thousands of suspicious firewall rule violations per month, fusing them 
together into just a dozen high-fidelity incidents of “compromised devices” that are surfaced to the SOC analyst.
Enrichment 
Given the high number of investigations a SOC handles daily, it’s crucial to prioritize the investigations of users 
with the highest impact to the organization, in case the account or device is breached. Enriching user metadata 
with information about the user “blast radius” based on their position in the organization and role importance  
provides this valuable prioritization and reduces the mean time to resolve the most critical incidents.
For example, a login by a user from a location they’re not usually associated with or have never used before, 
would be considered suspicious and an alert would be issued. However, if the user’s peers were logging in from 
the same location, this similar activity would indicate the event is probably benign and the associated alert 
would be suppressed. This enrichment reduces mean time to resolution by enabling security personnel to focus 
their investigations on alerts that matter. It can also reduce SecOps investigation time and level of 
expertise required.
Peer data: For a given user, we infer the ranked list of the user’s peers and frequent collaborators. 
Blast radius: For a given user, we infer the user’s “blast radius,” or the list of important assets that the user 
has access to.
21,000 HOURS
Time spent annually by security analysts triaging false positives.29
36
Microsoft Digital Defense Report  |  September 2020
27 Ram Shankar Siva Kumar et al., “Adversarial Machine Learning–Industry Perspectives,” Deep Learning and Security Workshop, co-located with the 41st IEEE Symposium on Security and Privacy, https://arxiv.org/abs/2002.05646/2020; 
28 Azure Sentinel and Microsoft Defender Antivirus; 29 Ponemon Institute; 30 Using Azure Active Directory (AAD) role importance
TABLE OF CONTENTS    INTRODUCTION    THE STATE OF CYBERCRIME    NATION STATE THREATS    SECURITY AND THE REMOTE WORKFORCE    ACTIONABLE LEARNINGS    GLOSSARY
37
Microsoft Digital Defense Report  |  September 2020
37
Microsoft Digital Defense Report  |  September 2020Diagram depicting the complexity of a “blast radius.”
What is a blast radius?
TABLE OF CONTENTS    INTRODUCTION    THE STATE OF CYBERCRIME    NATION STATE THREATS    SECURITY AND THE REMOTE WORKFORCE    ACTIONABLE LEARNINGS    GLOSSARY
38
Microsoft Digital Defense Report  |  September 2020
Democratizing machine learning in security with SOC-ML   
Microsoft security analysts and data scientists are constantly adding new ML anomalies and successfully finding 
valuable incidents in customer environments. To scale this effort and make it ubiquitous across the variety of 
third-party and custom data types, we need the help of the security community—especially managed security 
service providers (MSSPs) and large organizations that have the necessary security expertise. The major 
challenge this community encounters is finding security analysts with data science skills needed to develop 
ML models. 
To address this challenge, we advocate democratizing the development of these security ML models, making 
them accessible to security professionals with no data science background. SOC-ML is an effort to address this 
challenge, allowing security analysts to customize a model within a familiar user experience, fitting it to the 
needs of their organizations. It provides the ability to reduce alert fatigue by controlling the features used in the 
ML model and the thresholds of the scores produced. SOC-ML also provides explainable model scores, which 
has been a roadblock for wide ML adoption in security. Although democratization of ML continues to trickle into 
various technology areas, SOC-ML is a unique and disruptive approach in the security space. 
Leveraging anomaly detection for post-breach detection    
Behavioral anomaly detection has become increasingly important in enhancing post-breach attack detection. 
Once an attacker has penetrated the enterprise through phishing or other means, there’s very little labeled 
data, and the attacker has a huge variety of options, reducing the applicability of supervised ML and suggesting 
instead unsupervised methods that don’t require labeled data, such as anomaly detection. 
While the methods of anomaly detection are varied, some common themes are present:
•	 Behavioral changes over time are important. Models that can encode time-varying behaviors such as 
time-of-day, day-of-week, and other variations over time are critical for effective use in security settings.
Democratizing security ML with explainable model scoresImage of dashboard user interface for SOC-ML, with explainable model scores.
•	 Automatic, streaming model updating is more suitable for anomaly detection than the batch train/test 
process of supervised ML.
•	 The combination of weak anomalies (those that individually are prone to high false positive rates) to 
produce strong, attack-relevant rarity is a powerful method to deploy anomaly detection in security 
applications. Combining several rare events all indicating attack is much stronger than considering them 
independently.
•	 For post-breach kill chain detection, graphs are the topology upon which we combine anomaly scores.
38
Microsoft Digital Defense Report  |  September 2020
TABLE OF CONTENTS    INTRODUCTION    THE STATE OF CYBERCRIME    NATION STATE THREATS    SECURITY AND THE REMOTE WORKFORCE    ACTIONABLE LEARNINGS    GLOSSARY
39
Microsoft Digital Defense Report  |  September 2020Telemetry icon: here’s what we're seeing.
 We can see in the figures an example of anomaly detection and weak signals combined to produce 
actionable detection of the Parinacotta ransomware group for one of our customers. This case was reported 
through our Microsoft Threat Experts targeted attack notifications directly to the customer. The root-cause brute 
force followed by lateral movement and the dropping of ransomware on victim machines was discovered via 
probabilistic graph combination of anomaly and alert signals. This patented work was done as part of research 
for Microsoft Threat Protection.
39
Microsoft Digital Defense Report  |  September 2020
Actionable alerts based on weak anomalies
Human-operated ransomware detection
Identifying an attempt of brute force attack
Infograp
hic of acti
onal alerts based 
on weak ano
malies.
Infographic of human-operated ransomware detection.
Graph depicting
 anomaly d
etection of a brute force attack.
TABLE OF CONTENTS    INTRODUCTION    THE STATE OF CYBERCRIME    NATION STATE THREATS    SECURITY AND THE REMOTE WORKFORCE    ACTIONABLE LEARNINGS    GLOSSARYIcon representing the State of Cybercrime chapter
 Go to Actionable Learnings
Learn more:
Azure Sentinel uncovers the real threats hidden in billions of low-fidelity 
signals 2020/02/20
The science behind Microsoft Threat Protection: Attack modeling for finding 
and stopping lateral movement 2020/06/10
Advanced multistage attack detection in Azure Sentinel 2020/02/18
40
Microsoft Digital Defense Report  |  September 2020
2
Nation state threats
Introduction
Tracking nation state threats
Countering nation state activity
Common targets and motivations
Common attack techniques by nation state actors
Comprehensive protections required
TABLE OF CONTENTS    INTRODUCTION    THE STATE OF CYBERCRIME    NATION STATE THREATS    SECURITY AND THE REMOTE WORKFORCE    ACTIONABLE LEARNINGS    GLOSSARY
41
Microsoft Digital Defense Report  |  September 2020
Introduction
JOHN LAMBERT, DISTINGUISHED ENGINEER AND GENERAL MANAGER, MICROSOFT THREAT INTELLIGENCE CENTER
Nation state threats are defined as cyber threat activity that originates in a particular country with the 
apparent intent of furthering national interests. These attacks represent some of the most advanced and 
persistent threat activity Microsoft tracks.    
Nation state activity groups are focused, have the 
means to develop and deploy novel techniques and 
tactics, and are constantly working to improve their 
capabilities. We understand the complex nature 
of nation state cyberthreats and mobilize all our 
security analysis and products to discover, track, and 
defend our customers against them. 
Microsoft’s approach to defending against nation 
state threats is as multifaceted as the threats 
themselves. Our approach rests on a thorough 
understanding of the tactics and techniques these 
groups use, their targeting patterns, and the 
possible objectives driving their activity. 
These insights, along with the fidelity Microsoft 
signals provide, allow us to better spot emerging 
malicious campaigns, warn customers about the 
activity, and implement protections against them. 
The Microsoft Threat Intelligence Center follows 
these threats, builds comprehensive profiles of the 
activity, and works closely with all Microsoft security 
teams to implement detections and mitigations to 
protect our customers. Each of those teams shares 
related indicators, detections, and research to build 
unparalleled visibility into these advanced threats 
across the full suite of Microsoft products 
and services.
In this chapter, we share some of Microsoft’s 
intelligence on the tactics commonly used by nation 
state groups, the industry verticals and geographic 
regions they target most often, and assessments on 
the possible motivations for this malicious activity. 
Our hope is that sharing this knowledge will help 
security organizations better understand and defend 
against these sophisticated and consequential threats.Icon representing the Nation State Threats chapter.
TABLE OF CONTENTS    INTRODUCTION    THE STATE OF CYBERCRIME    NATION STATE THREATS    SECURITY AND THE REMOTE WORKFORCE    ACTIONABLE LEARNINGS    GLOSSARY
42
Microsoft Digital Defense Report  |  September 2020
Tracking nation state threats 
Microsoft tracks nation state activities to protect our platforms, our services, and our customers. We use a 
variety of metrics and sophisticated data integration techniques to better understand targeting, motivations, 
and customer impact. MSTIC focuses on nation state activities because these tactics, techniques, and 
procedures are often unique and novel, prompting downstream actors such as cybercriminals and smaller 
nation states to eventually copy their methods.  
The use of open-source defensive toolkits to improve proactive detections of threats has increasingly become a 
way for nation state actors to obfuscate their activity by hiding in plain sight using weaponized open-source code. 
MSTIC analysts focus on nation state activities regardless of platform, targeted victim, or geographical region, 
and we maintain visibility and active threat hunting worldwide. The information presented here provides a 
snapshot of customers impacted by nation state activity. It’s important to note that even if a particular industry 
sector or geographic region isn’t represented in the information here, nation state activity spans nearly every 
industry sector and geographic region. In other words, protections against these tactics are critical for every 
organization and individual. Our intelligence is also impacted by the degree to which our products and 
platforms are utilized in a particular geography or for particular purposes.
Nation state notifications
When a customer (organization or individual account holder) is targeted or compromised by nation state 
activities that Microsoft tracks, we deliver a nation state notification (NSN) to the customer. Over the past 
two years, Microsoft has delivered over 13,000 NSNs. The highest percentage of NSNs represented activity 
originating in Russia, followed by Iran, China, North Korea, and other countries.Graph of targeted geographic regions based on nation state notifications, July 2019 through June 2020. United States 69%, United Kingdom 19%, Canada 5%, South Korea 4%, Saudi Arabia 3%.Graph of country of activity origin, July 2019 through June 2020. Russia 52%, Iran 25%, China 12%, North Korea and other 11%.Telemetry icon: here’s what we're seeing.
 Top 5 targeted geographic 
regions based on NSNs 
(July 2019–June 2020)Telemetry icon: here’s what we're seeing.
 Country of activity origin 
for NSNs (July 2019–June 2020)
TABLE OF CONTENTS    INTRODUCTION    THE STATE OF CYBERCRIME    NATION STATE THREATS    SECURITY AND THE REMOTE WORKFORCE    ACTIONABLE LEARNINGS    GLOSSARY
Countering nation state activity 
Nation state actors are generally well-resourced and capable adversaries. Our relentless pursuit of these 
adversaries and our continuous development of new capabilities to detect and deter malicious activity 
support our commitment to customer protection.
Guide to nation state actors discussed in this report
Throughout this chapter, we cite examples of nation state actors to provide a deeper view into attack targets, 
techniques, and analysis of motivations. Microsoft identifies nation state activities with chemical element names, 
just some of which are shown on the following page together with the countries from which the actors operate. 
This small sample of the total nation state actors tracked by Microsoft represents those that were most active in 
the last year (July 2019–June 2020) and made most effective use of the tactics detailed in this chapter.
43
Microsoft Digital Defense Report  |  September 2020Photo of New York city buildings.
Microsoft Digital Defense Report  |  September 2020
43
TABLE OF CONTENTS    INTRODUCTION    THE STATE OF CYBERCRIME    NATION STATE THREATS    SECURITY AND THE REMOTE WORKFORCE    ACTIONABLE LEARNINGS    GLOSSARY
44
Microsoft Digital Defense Report  |  September 2020Table of nation state actors and their activities, depicting their activity group element name, country of origin, industry references, and commonly targeted industries.
Sample of nation state actors and their activities
TABLE OF CONTENTS    INTRODUCTION    THE STATE OF CYBERCRIME    NATION STATE THREATS    SECURITY AND THE REMOTE WORKFORCE    ACTIONABLE LEARNINGS    GLOSSARY
45
Microsoft Digital Defense Report  |  September 2020
Our approach
Microsoft uses four main approaches to disrupt 
nation state actors—technology, operations, legal 
action, and policy—and each one plays an important 
role in our commitment to protecting customers.
Leveraging technology:
Microsoft’s cumulative knowledge of the global 
threat landscape enables our products and services 
to constantly create and update new detections that 
protect and defend against nation state activities at 
scale. These collective defenses represent the most 
effective method to counter nation state threats 
because they’re informed by the extensive threat 
intelligence resources built into each product and 
enabled by world-class engineering.
Taking action against malicious operations: 
From time to time, Microsoft will have sufficient 
information to warrant a one-time deletion or 
shutdown of infrastructure or assets associated with 
a nation state attacker. By taking proactive action 
against malicious infrastructure, the actor loses 
visibility, capability, and access across a range of 
assets previously under their control, forcing them 
to rebuild. An example of this scenario would be the 
THALLIUM disruption in late 2019.31
Leveraging legal actions: 
One of Microsoft’s unique resources in the fight 
against nation states is the Digital Crimes Unit. The 
DCU is responsible for lawsuits against STRONTIUM, 
BARIUM, PHOSPHORUS, and THALLIUM. Using 
litigation to seize domains and assets used by nation 
state actors against Microsoft customers, DCU has 
been instrumental in shutting down those attack 
vectors. These four cases have led to the takedown 
of hundreds of domains and the protection of 
thousands of customers. Lessons learned from the 
cases are shared with Microsoft engineering teams 
to help improve our operational and technical 
disruption capabilities. 
Informing public discourse and policy: 
Microsoft uses its voice to raise awareness 
about nation state activities when we see them, 
highlighting the context and impacts of the 
incidents. This reporting helps drive a broad 
discussion about what can be done to combat 
malicious nation state activities across governments, 
enterprises, academia, social organizations, and the 
public. Talking publicly about nation state attacks 
is an important part of deterrence. For example, in 
October 2019, Microsoft identified publicly that an 
account associated with a U.S. presidential campaign 
had been targeted by PHOSPHORUS.32, 33 This public 
disclosure drove a significant dialogue about the 
attack and election security, with sustained media 
coverage, putting a spotlight on the necessity of 
protecting political campaigns from foreign actors.
31 https://blogs.microsoft.com/on-the-issues/2019/12/30/microsoft-court-action-against-nation-state-cybercrime/
32 https://blogs.microsoft.com/on-the-issues/2019/10/04/recent-cyberattacks-require-us-all-to-be-vigilant/
33 https://www.nytimes.com/2019/10/04/technology/iranian-campaign-hackers-microsoft.htmlTelemetry icon: here’s what we're seeing.
 Top 5 detected nation state activity 
groups targeting Microsoft customers 
(July 2019–June 2020)Graph depicting top 5 detected nation state activity groups for July 2019 through June 2020 based on number of NSNs sent. Strontium 63%, Phosphorus 18%, Mercury 9%, Nickel 5%, Thallium 5%.
TABLE OF CONTENTS    INTRODUCTION    THE STATE OF CYBERCRIME    NATION STATE THREATS    SECURITY AND THE REMOTE WORKFORCE    ACTIONABLE LEARNINGS    GLOSSARY
Common targets and motivations 
To provide a deeper analysis of some of the observed nation state activity, we look at frequently 
targeted sectors and the motivations of the attackers.
Critical infrastructure Telemetry icon: here’s what we're seeing.
 Nation state activity is more likely to target 
organizations outside of the critical infrastructure 
sectors by a significant measure, with over 90% of 
notifications served outside of these sectors. 
Within the critical infrastructure sectors, targeting of 
IT organizations represents over 60% of nation state 
activity, followed by commercial facilities, critical 
manufacturing, financial services, and the defense 
industrial base.
Frequently targeted sectors  Telemetry icon: here’s what we're seeing.
 The sectors listed below were consistent targets 
of nation state activity in the period from July 2019 
through June 2020. We’ve listed them in order of 
prevalence with respect to the number of NSNs 
delivered to each sector.
46
Microsoft Digital Defense Report  |  September 2020Graph depicting top 6 targeted industry sectors by NSNs delivered from July 2019 through June 2020. Non-governmental organizations 32%, professional services 31%, government organizations 13%, international organizations 10%, Information Technology firms 7%, Higher education 7%. 
Top 6 targeted industry sectors by NSNs delivered (July 2019–June 2020)
TABLE OF CONTENTS    INTRODUCTION    THE STATE OF CYBERCRIME    NATION STATE THREATS    SECURITY AND THE REMOTE WORKFORCE    ACTIONABLE LEARNINGS    GLOSSARY
47
Microsoft Digital Defense Report  |  September 2020
32%
Non-governmental 
organizations 
The NGO recipients of NSNs included organizations 
such as advocacy groups, human rights 
organizations, nonprofit organizations, and think 
tanks focused on public policy, international affairs, 
and security. STRONTIUM was responsible for more 
than three quarters of activity triggering NSNs 
in this sector through heavy targeting of sports 
associations. DUBNIUM was the second most active 
group, followed by ZINC, THALLIUM, 
and PHOSPHORUS.
31%
Professional services 
Support services and trusted third parties can 
serve as launch points for intrusions or collection 
against government targets, whose systems might 
have more robust security protocols in place. In the 
last year, STRONTIUM attempted to compromise 
consulting firms and government contractors, 
specifically U.S. defense contractors and large public 
affairs, corporate legal, IT, media, and physical 
security consultancies operating in the United States, 
Europe, and the Middle East.
13%
Government organizations
Nation state threat actors attempted to compromise 
foreign ministries and equivalent diplomatic 
institutions in countries across the Americas, 
Australia, Central and Southern Africa, Europe, and 
the Middle East. NICKEL made an aggressive push 
against foreign ministries in 11 countries across Latin 
America and Europe during this period. Microsoft 
discovered YTTRIUM had gained footholds in the 
diplomatic missions of several European countries. 
Military institutions and national legislatures were 
also popular targets in the government sector.
10%
International organizations 
Among international organizations, global and 
regional organizations working on governance 
norms and human rights were top targets. MERCURY 
attempted to compromise a high number of targets 
involved in work with refugees. THALLIUM focused 
its efforts on a regional organization devoted to 
developments in Africa. As the COVID-19 pandemic 
unfolded, both DUBNIUM and PHOSPHORUS 
directed their attention toward global health 
institutions. 
7%
Information technology firms 
As mentioned earlier, IT is the most heavily 
targeted of the critical infrastructure sectors. 
Attacks on IT products and service providers are 
the most prevalent in this category, followed by 
companies that provide internet routing, access, 
and connections. MANGANESE was the most 
active against IT sector targets, pursuing account 
compromise in U.S.-based companies involved in 
microchip technology, cybersecurity, and networking 
solutions. MERCURY targeted network technology 
providers in the Middle East.
7%
Higher education 
Actors STRONTIUM, PHOSPHORUS, BARIUM, 
THALLIUM, and ZINC all targeted universities in 
this period. Victims were spread across the globe, 
including institutions of higher education in the 
United States, Asia, Europe, Latin America, and the 
Middle East. Colleges and universities are targeted 
because they often house cutting-edge research 
initiatives that might be of interest to nation state 
actors. For example, a suspected nation state group 
operating out of China compromised accounts 
at a U.S. university involved in COVID-19 vaccine 
research in March. Beyond scientific research 
itself, nation state actors originating from both 
North Korea and Iran targeted global universities’ 
subject matter experts (SMEs) that influence 
international policy on topics ranging from 
international security and nuclear nonproliferation 
to domestic politics and human rights in their 
respective regions. Accessing the SMEs’ personal 
and professional contacts could serve espionage 
and counterespionage purposes for the supporting 
nation state.
Top 6 targeted industry sectors
TABLE OF CONTENTS    INTRODUCTION    THE STATE OF CYBERCRIME    NATION STATE THREATS    SECURITY AND THE REMOTE WORKFORCE    ACTIONABLE LEARNINGS    GLOSSARY
Targeting major events and other opportunities 
Major current events are commonly targeted by nation state actors or leveraged as opportunities to further 
operational objectives. Microsoft has observed several such operations targeting events around the globe, 
including elections and individuals tied to political campaigns as well as the Olympic Games. More recently, 
several nation state actors took advantage of the global COVID-19 pandemic to craft targeted spear-
phishing lures in credential theft and malware deployment efforts. 
Political campaigns  
In a 30-day period between August and September 
2019, MSTIC observed PHOSPHORUS performing 
password sprays, making more than 2,700 attempts 
to identify consumer email accounts belonging to 
specific Microsoft customers, and then proceeding 
to attack 241 of those accounts. The targeted 
accounts are associated with a U.S. presidential 
campaign, current and former U.S. government 
officials, journalists covering global politics, 
and prominent Iranians living outside Iran. Four 
accounts were compromised as a result of these 
attempts. (These four accounts weren’t associated 
with the U.S. presidential campaign or current and 
former U.S. government officials.) As we approach 
the 2020 U.S. general election, we’re likely to see 
activity increase after this report was written. 
MSTIC has previously observed similar patterns by 
STRONTIUM and other actors targeting elections or 
politically affiliated organizations in other countries. 
ZIRCONIUM, operating from China, has attempted 
to gain intelligence on organizations associated 
with the upcoming U.S. presidential election. We’ve 
detected thousands of attacks from ZIRCONIUM 
between March 2020 and September 2020 resulting 
in nearly 150 compromises. As additional elections 
occur around the world, Microsoft will continue to 
monitor and notify our customers of these attacks.
2020 Olympic Games  
As the world prepared for the Tokyo Summer 
Olympic Games in 2020, at least 16 national and 
international sporting and anti-doping organizations 
across three continents were targeted. The attacks 
began on September 16, 2019, just before news 
reports emerged about new potential action 
being taken by the World Anti-Doping Agency 
(WADA). Following patterns detected in attacks 
against organizations affiliated with previous 
Olympic Games,  some of these attacks were able 
to successfully gain access to targeted accounts. 
STRONTIUM has consistently targeted these 
organizations using spear phishing, password spray, 
and both open-source and custom malware to 
compromise devices for further espionage.35
COVID-19 outbreak  
Microsoft observed 16 different nation state actors 
either targeting customers involved in the global 
COVID-19 response efforts or leveraging the crisis 
in themed lures to expand their credential theft and 
malware delivery tactics. These COVID-19-themed 
attacks targeted prominent government healthcare 
organizations in efforts to perform reconnaissance 
on their networks or people. They targeted global 
medical relief and humanitarian aid organizations 
with spear-phishing lures paired with malicious 
macros in Word documents. They also crafted 
unique credential theft lures spoofing a popular 
U.S. fast food chain’s COVID-19 response email 
and spoofed offers of online coupons. Academic 
and commercial organizations involved in vaccine 
research were also targeted. 
Although these activities didn’t represent 
significant operational shifts by these actors during 
the COVID-19 crisis, it’s imperative that every 
organization affiliated with or affected by a major 
public event understand how their organization 
defends against the tactics commonly used by these 
actors.
Learn more :
New cyber attacks targeting US elections 2020/09/10
Microsoft Digital Defense Report  |  September 2020
48
34 https://www.wired.com/story/untold-story-2018-olympics-destroyer-cyberattack/
35 https://blogs.microsoft.com/on-the-issues/2019/10/28/cyberattacks-sporting-anti-doping/
TABLE OF CONTENTS    INTRODUCTION    THE STATE OF CYBERCRIME    NATION STATE THREATS    SECURITY AND THE REMOTE WORKFORCE    ACTIONABLE LEARNINGS    GLOSSARY
49
Microsoft Digital Defense Report  |  September 2020
Common operational aims
Nation state actors often conduct intrusions in pursuit of larger strategic objectives, which they view as critical to the stability, prosperity, and sometimes survival of their 
home nations. As such, these groups are highly motivated and willing to invest significant time and resources into achieving their operational objectives. Whatever the 
strategic objective behind it, nation state cyberthreat activity has common operational aims: to steal information (about you, your business, personnel, customers, or 
partners) or to disrupt or destroy components of your operations.
Espionage
Microsoft tracks several nation state activity groups 
for whom espionage is their main goal. These 
groups operate to gather information about the 
intentions and movements of targets of interest. 
Some of the information they’re looking for includes 
government correspondence, proprietary business 
information, and individual contacts.
Government correspondence
Government correspondence speaks directly to 
national plans and intentions. Threat actors across 
the globe focus on compromising foreign ministries 
because these organizations  produce, exchange, and 
store voluminous content about their home nations’ 
foreign policy and security priorities. The extensive 
targeting of think tanks and policy-oriented NGOs 
is probably also reflective of a hunt for insights 
into government policy. Think tanks and NGOs 
focus largely on government policy often without 
the baseline attention to cybersecurity that many 
government agencies have, making them attractive 
targets from which to collect insights into 
national policy.
Proprietary business information
Nation state threat actors seek to collect trade 
secrets and intellectual property for a number of 
reasons, which can include accelerating the growth 
of their own domestic industries, advancing a 
military program, or determining how advanced 
an adversarial nation’s weapons or technology 
capabilities are. As the COVID-19 pandemic 
unfolded, China-based nation state threat actors 
targeted medical research institutions in the United 
States and Asia, highlighting competition for 
medical innovations as another potential motive for 
proprietary information theft.
Individual contacts
In addition to directly attempting to collect 
information about experts in their fields of interest, 
nation state threat actors seek information on 
individuals to learn about their intentions and ideas, 
similar to the tactics described in the Government 
correspondence section. They might also be seeking 
to improve the effectiveness of spear phishing and 
other social engineering efforts and to surface 
additional attack vectors within a target’s personal or 
professional networks. In April and May 2020, ZINC 
actors sent phishing lures spoofing multiple U.S.-
based aerospace firms to employees at competitor 
firms in Asia and Europe, probably hoping to 
increase collection opportunities in the sector. For 
more information and detailed examples of how 
this information is employed in operations, see the 
Common attack techniques by nation state actors 
section of this report.
TABLE OF CONTENTS    INTRODUCTION    THE STATE OF CYBERCRIME    NATION STATE THREATS    SECURITY AND THE REMOTE WORKFORCE    ACTIONABLE LEARNINGS    GLOSSARY
50
Microsoft Digital Defense Report  |  September 2020
Disruption or destruction 
Although less common than espionage, nation state threat actors have conducted intrusions intended to disrupt 
or destroy data or physical assets at targeted facilities or institutions. The U.S. National Institute of Standards 
and Technology (NIST) defines a disruption as “an unplanned event that causes the general system or major 
application to be inoperable for an unacceptable length of time.”36 Disruptive operations can, for example, 
result in minor or extended power outages or extended network unavailability. Destructive operations involve 
“overwriting, erasing, or physically destroying information,” equipment, or facilities.37
A look at past activities suggests nation state actors might engage in disruptive or destructive operations to 
retaliate against actions by a perceived actor, to deter or discourage continuation of certain activities, or to test 
new or developing cyber tools and techniques. For example, actors operating from Russia have a history of 
launching disruptive and potentially destructive cyberattacks in response to perceived anti-Russian actions in 
international sport.  In advance of the Olympic Games in 2016 and 2018, respectively, suspected Russia-based 
threat actors stole and leaked athletes’ sensitive medical data and rendered inoperable the servers comprising 
the IT backbone of the Olympic Games.39
Late in 2019, Microsoft observed STRONTIUM attempting to compromise at least 16 national and international 
sporting and anti-doping organizations across three continents. These attempts began when WADA announced 
its decision to investigate Russia’s anti-doping agency in September 2019 and continued through December 
2019 when WADA ultimately ruled to ban the Russian national team from participation in the Olympic Games.40
36 https://csrc.nist.gov/glossary/term/disruption
37 https://csrc.nist.gov/glossary/term/Destruction
38 “Russian hackers leak Simone Biles and Serena Williams files,” BBC News, September 13, 2016, https://www.bbc.com/news/world-37352326; “WADA 
confirms another batch of athlete data leaked by Russian cyber hackers ‘Fancy Bear,’” WADA website, September 14, 2016. [Online]. Available: https://
www.wada-ama.org/en/media/news/2016-09/wada-confirms-another-batch-of-athlete-data-leaked-by-russian-cyber-hackers-fancy 
39 Greenberg, Andy. “The Untold Story of the 2018 Olympics Cyberattack, the Most Deceptive Hack in History,” WIRED Magazine, October 17, 2019. [Online]. 
Available: https://www.wired.com/story/untold-story-2018-olympics-destroyer-cyberattack/
40 https://blogs.microsoft.com/on-the-issues/2019/10/28/cyberattacks-sporting-anti-doping/
...nation state 
actors may engage 
in disruptive or 
destructive operations 
to retaliate against 
actions by a 
perceived actor, to 
deter or discourage 
continuation of 
certain activities, 
or to test new or 
developing cyber 
tools and techniques.
TABLE OF CONTENTS    INTRODUCTION    THE STATE OF CYBERCRIME    NATION STATE THREATS    SECURITY AND THE REMOTE WORKFORCE    ACTIONABLE LEARNINGS    GLOSSARY
51
Microsoft Digital Defense Report  |  September 2020
Common attack techniques by nation state actors Telemetry icon: here’s what we're seeing.
 Understanding what nation state threat groups are doing and why is one part of the story, but even 
more important is to know how they conduct their operations so that organizations can put the appropriate 
defense protections and practices in place. The sections below represent the most common tactics used by 
nation state actors in the last year. 
Reconnaissance
Microsoft has observed a significant increase in 
password spray attacks by nation state actors in the 
last year that indicate a new level of sophistication 
in their reconnaissance tactics. Identifying and 
accessing legitimate user accounts is a critical 
method that an increasing number of nation state 
actors are using to successfully infiltrate a targeted 
organization and achieve operational aims. 
PHOSPHORUS, HOLMIUM, and STRONTIUM are 
examples of actors associated with nation state 
operations that have successfully refined the 
password spray tactic for reconnaissance over the 
past two years. Password sprays have included 
known accounts across large organizations but have 
also included iterations of possible name formats to 
discover accounts, including personal accounts.
PHOSPHORUS has targeted a wide variety of 
organizations in the past year, with particular 
focus on targeting personal email accounts of 
individuals employed or affiliated with their 
objective. These operations have largely focused on 
individuals involved in human rights organizations, 
humanitarian or refugee relief efforts, NGOs defining 
or setting policies associated with international 
sanctions, or personal accounts of government 
employees.   
Personal email accounts are a particularly effective 
target for a reconnaissance operation since 
most individuals don’t apply the level of security 
protections applied by larger organizations (such as 
MFA and complex passwords). Individuals in smaller 
organizations might also use consumer email 
platforms for official communications, making them 
high-value targets for surveillance. If a large-scale 
password spray or password guessing operation is 
launched against a set of known accounts, one of 
the most effective ways to proactively prevent those 
attacks is through the combination of MFA and 
strong passwords.
HOLMIUM uses a combination of tactics to gain 
access to networks, including socially engineered 
spear-phishing operations and password spray 
attacks. During one wave of activity over a two-day 
period in January 2020, HOLMIUM password spray 
activity attempted logins against 33,141 different 
tenants with an average of 2.74 accounts per tenant. 
Other capabilities of HOLMIUM include use of 
open-source “penetration testing tools” as well 
as custom PowerShell-based tools. Attacks have 
targeted entities affiliated with the oil and gas sector 
and its supporting industries, including maritime 
transportation and logistics companies. HOLMIUM 
actors have been observed deploying Ruler, a self-
described “tool to abuse Exchange accounts” on 
compromised accounts.⁴¹  The Ruler command and 
control server in turn deploys a custom PowerShell-
based implant identified as “Powerton.”
41 https://github.com/sensepost/ruler
Example of name reconnaissance 
conducted by PHOSPHORUS: 
iterations of name formats 
including personal attacks
J.Smith@contoso.com
John.smith@contoso.com
John.m.smith@contoso.com
JohnSmith@contoso.com
johnmsmith@contoso.com
TABLE OF CONTENTS    INTRODUCTION    THE STATE OF CYBERCRIME    NATION STATE THREATS    SECURITY AND THE REMOTE WORKFORCE    ACTIONABLE LEARNINGS    GLOSSARY
52
Microsoft Digital Defense Report  |  September 2020
Credential harvesting
Credential harvesting is a common tactic used 
by nation state actors to improve their ability to 
compromise a targeted organization. Microsoft 
tracks activity by multiple actors that leverage spear-
phishing emails, carefully crafted imitation domains, 
and spoofed login pages to convince employees 
to login using their corporate credentials. These 
logins on maliciously crafted websites steal and then 
reuse the usernames and passwords recorded by 
unsuspecting employees.
THALLIUM is one Microsoft-identified nation 
state actor that uses credential harvesting as 
a successful tactic to gain access to NGOs, 
government organizations, and other professional 
services organizations affiliated with their areas of 
geopolitical interest. THALLIUM spends significant 
resources purchasing and using imitation domains 
that resemble their targeted organization’s name, 
or using the name of an online service the target 
uses, as the subdomain. For example, THALLIUM 
registered the client-mobile.work domain and 
then created a subdomain that includes the words 
“login” and “outlook” (such as login-outlook.
client-mobile.work) to raise the likelihood they 
will successfully convince a targeted individual to 
provide their credentials. THALLIUM then set up a 
cloned authentication page to convince the target 
to provide their username and password, thinking 
they were logging into a legitimate corporate site. 
It’s also worth noting that use of the word “mobile” 
could also indicate they anticipated a user might 
click on this lure from a mobile phone and the 
screen size or difficulty in seeing the full URL on 
these devices might increase the likelihood a user 
will fall for the lure. 
THALLIUM’s spoofed pages include most major 
online service brands. The servers they use to 
conduct this credential theft are often compromised 
servers of other legitimate companies, such 
as a small business computer that has been 
compromised and then set up as infrastructure for 
this intrusion. THALLIUM has also been known to 
use inexpensive regional virtual private server (VPS) 
providers as infrastructure for similar operations. 
In the last year, MSTIC has discovered more than 
500 domains that were registered by THALLIUM 
to conduct credential theft operations—most 
mimicking a well-known brand to successfully lure 
their targeted user. 
THALLIUM typically attempts to trick victims 
through spear phishing. By gathering information 
about the targeted individuals from social media, 
public personnel directories from organizations 
the individual is involved with, and other public 
sources, THALLIUM is able to craft a personalized 
spear-phishing email in a way that gives the email 
credibility to the target. As seen in the sample 
spear-phishing email below, the content is designed 
to appear legitimate, but closer review shows that 
THALLIUM has spoofed the sender by combining 
the letters “r” and “n” to appear as the first letter “m” 
in “microsoft.com.” The link in the email redirects 
the user to a website requesting the user’s account 
credentials. By tricking victims into clicking on the 
fraudulent links and providing their credentials, 
THALLIUM is then able to log in to the victim’s 
account.
Additionally, THALLIUM will often create a new 
mail-forwarding rule in the victim’s account settings. 
This mail-forwarding rule will forward all new emails 
received by the victim to THALLIUM-controlled 
accounts. By using forwarding rules, THALLIUM can 
continue to see email received by the victim, even 
after the victim’s account password is updated.
Credential harvesting exampleDiagram of spoofing by combining letters “r” and “n” to appear as the letter “m”
Learn more:
STRONTIUM: Detecting new patterns in credential 
harvesting 2020/09/10
TABLE OF CONTENTS    INTRODUCTION    THE STATE OF CYBERCRIME    NATION STATE THREATS    SECURITY AND THE REMOTE WORKFORCE    ACTIONABLE LEARNINGS    GLOSSARY
53
Microsoft Digital Defense Report  |  September 2020
Malware
Malware represents one of the most effective and 
commonly used methods by nation state actors 
to successfully infiltrate and maintain persistence 
on a targeted system. Advanced adversaries invest 
heavily in development of unique malware, but 
also are known to obfuscate their activity by using 
openly available malicious code for mainstream 
online criminal activity. Even more common is the 
malicious use of known vulnerabilities in commercial 
enterprise software to take advantage of poorly 
secured targets.
BARIUM is a long-running actor with abundant 
success in compromising victims since 2006. 
Although the group has been observed mostly 
targeting information technology, software, and IT 
products and services companies, Microsoft has 
seen BARIUM target a wide range of organizations 
including but not limited to retail, manufacturing, 
NGOs, government organizations, gaming, and 
hospitality. BARIUM is particularly effective at 
improving on their own custom malware and 
leveraging open-source tools to limit detection. 
BARIUM appears to frequently upgrade and refine 
their toolkit with slight modifications to their 
implants to stay ahead of defenders. Some of the 
modifications to their implants suggest that BARIUM 
actively develops and maintains either the primary 
codebase or a fork of PlugX, Strilix (Crosswalk), and 
Winnti malware.
The attention to detail seen in BARIUM 
reconnaissance, infrastructure setup, and custom 
malware has contributed to abundant success in 
compromising targets. 
Summary of techniques BARIUM has used 
successfully in past operations:
•	 Windows shortcut (.Lnk) with hidden
payloads
Windows Shortcut.Ink with hidden payloads 
was observed in the summer 2016. The RAR 
archive BARIUM sent to the victim contained 
a Windows Shortcut file, Resume.docx, and 
an executable named Thumbs.db. When the 
victim ran the .lnk file, it installed the Win32/
Barlaiy3F42 implant and then displayed a 
legitimate Resume.docx.
•	 Windows compiled html help files. (.Chm)
Because Microsoft HTML Help is a necessary 
feature in the Windows platform, HTML Help 
generates .CHM files legitimately that can be 
viewed by using the Windows HH.exe viewer. 
BARIUM delivers malicious .CHM files that 
execute when the user opens them. While the 
user will see what appears to be a legitimate 
document in the Help Viewer (commonly a 
résumé), the malware silently runs JavaScript 
that executes the malware delivery and stores it 
in xml.htm.
•	 Microsoft PowerPoint and Word documents 
with macro 
This technique required the victims to “enable 
content” (macros) within a malicious PowerPoint 
or Word file typically delivered in an email. This 
technique can bypass protections if users aren’t 
careful and manually enable the macro when 
opening the document. The theme of these files 
was typically focused on résumés or business 
development, aligning with themes uncovered 
in the reconnaissance phases. When these 
macros were successfully run, a backdoor trojan 
was installed.
BARIUM also uses what’s described as “supply chain” 
techniques as an initial infection vector against 
organizations globally. In these cases, BARIUM 
compromises software companies and modifies their 
source code to install malware. Modifying legitimate 
software and compromising update processes allows 
BARIUM to selectively compromise organizations 
of their choosing. BARIUM has embedded malware 
in legitimate software executables which, when 
deployed, beaconed over DNS to infrastructure that 
BARIUM controlled. By monitoring this DNS traffic, 
BARIUM could select their victim and customize 
delivery of more specialized modules to clients of 
their choosing.
More recently, BARIUM has shifted their techniques 
to start using more open-source malware tooling in 
their attacks. Microsoft has observed them dropping 
batch files that are used to create persistence 
for their Implants using Crosswalk/Strilix and 
CobaltStrike, two common open-source penetration 
testing tools that can easily be weaponized for 
attacks.
For more information on software supply chain, 
see the In focus: Supply chain security section of 
this report. 
42 https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/wdsi/threats/malware-encyclopedia-descriptionTrojanDropper:Win32/Barlaiy.A!dha
TABLE OF CONTENTS    INTRODUCTION    THE STATE OF CYBERCRIME    NATION STATE THREATS    SECURITY AND THE REMOTE WORKFORCE    ACTIONABLE LEARNINGS    GLOSSARY
54
Microsoft Digital Defense Report  |  September 2020
VPN Exploits
As the world adjusts to increased numbers of 
remote workers, global enterprise IT departments 
rely on VPNs to improve the connectivity and 
security of systems. Typically, this critical service is 
managed by third-party software deployed across 
our devices. Since mid-2019, Microsoft has observed 
nation state actors consistently targeting and 
frequently compromising outdated and unpatched 
VPN infrastructure. This activity indicates they view 
it as an easy and effective method for penetrating 
and persisting on a targeted network by using 
compromised credentials. 
MANGANESE has been successful in compromising 
victims since 2010. The group targets companies in 
sectors such as satellite communications, defense, 
healthcare and public health, IT products and 
services, and GPS navigation. They’re known to be 
quite stealthy, maintaining access to their victims 
for long periods of time, and conducting successful 
operations against multiple victims over several 
years with few updates to their malware. They 
frequently use social profiles from highly visited 
internet sites for their malware configuration strings, 
making it difficult for targeted organizations to 
detect. 
MANGANESE is known for leveraging stolen 
credentials from victim networks to maintain 
long-term access. Their most common tactic 
for maintaining persistence on an account is by 
connecting to remote access locations using 
legitimate accounts, which reduces the chances of 
being detected. They also rely on heavy use of VPN 
providers for infrastructure and short-timespan 
connections to further reduce their trackable 
footprint. 
For more information on VPN exploits, see the 
Security and the remote workforce chapter of this 
report.Best practice icon: our recommended controls.
 Applying security patches for internet-facing 
systems is critical in preventing attacks. 
When managing VPN or VPS infrastructure, it’s 
critical for organizations to know the current status 
of related security patches. In October 2019, both 
the National Security Agency and National Cyber 
Security Centre (NCSC) put out alerts on these 
attacks and encouraged enterprises to patch.
Web shell-based attacks on the rise 
Microsoft’s Detection and Response Team (has seen that web shell-based attacks are 
also on the rise. Often written in typical web development programming languages 
(such as ASP, PHP, JSP), web shells allow an attacker to execute commands and to 
steal data from a web server or use the server as a launch pad for further attacks 
against the affected organization. While multiple threat actor groups, including ZINC, 
KRYPTON, and GALLIUM, have been observed using web shells, their prevalence 
has increased, and Microsoft Defender Advanced Threat Protection now detects an 
average of 77,000 web shells and related artifacts on an average of 46,000 unique 
machines every month. 
DART completed an incident response investigation and remediation to an incident 
that used a web shell to gain a foothold in a customer environment. The customer 
was a public sector organization that had their internet-facing servers misconfigured, 
allowing attackers to upload a web shell and gain initial entry to further compromise 
their network. DART’s investigation revealed that the attackers uploaded multiple 
web shells leading to compromise of domain admin and service accounts. The 
attackers also installed a dynamic link library backdoor on an Outlook Web Access 
server. To persist on the server, the backdoor implant registered itself as a service or 
as an Exchange transport agent, which allowed it to access and intercept all incoming 
and outgoing emails, exposing sensitive information of the customer.
TABLE OF CONTENTS    INTRODUCTION    THE STATE OF CYBERCRIME    NATION STATE THREATS    SECURITY AND THE REMOTE WORKFORCE    ACTIONABLE LEARNINGS    GLOSSARY
Comprehensive protections required
The skill and persistence of malicious nation state activity increases the difficulty of detecting and protecting 
against these threats. Their impact can be wide ranging and highly damaging. These adversaries are well funded, 
employ techniques of tremendous breadth and sophistication, and are motivated by objectives of national 
significance—which might lead to their compromising networks for unexpected purposes. More than other 
adversaries, nation state attackers target individuals specifically for access to their connections, communications, 
and information. Best practice icon: our recommended controls.
 Defense-in-depth strategies against nation state adversaries should include educating employees on how 
to avoid being targeted themselves. Enabling MFA on all personal or work accounts is a critical security practice. 
This best practice for the home environment, preventing attacks including those that could result in financial 
loss, will also help to protect corporate assets from attacks originating from personal email addresses, file 
sharing services, and social media.  
While nation state attacks are often sophisticated or can deploy zero-day vulnerabilities to gain access to 
networks, defense-in-depth strategies and proactive monitoring can greatly reduce the actor’s dwell time on 
a network, potentially enabling disruption of their activities before they reach their goals. Above and beyond 
enabling MFA, IT departments should prioritize steps to mitigate lateral movement by attackers; specifically, 
credential hygiene and network segmentation. To limit the damage of data exfiltration, information rights 
management can be applied to files. Building protective controls into your network will raise the threshold for 
attackers, improving your organization’s ability to detect anomalous activity in the environment.
Microsoft Digital Defense Report  |  September 2020
55
              
Go to Actionable Learnings
Learn more:
Microsoft Threat Protection stops attack sprawl and 
auto-heals enterprise assets with built-in intelligence 
and automation 2020/02/20
Microsoft takes court action against fourth nation-
state cybercrime group 2019/12/30
MITRE ATT&CK APT 29 evaluation proves Microsoft 
Threat Protection provides a deeper end-to-end view 
of advanced threats 2020/04/21
The Verge: Microsoft has warned 10,000 people that 
nation-state hackers are targeting them 2019/07/18Icon representing the Nation State Threats chapter
TABLE OF CONTENTS    INTRODUCTION    THE STATE OF CYBERCRIME    NATION STATE THREATS    SECURITY AND THE REMOTE WORKFORCE    ACTIONABLE LEARNINGS    GLOSSARY
56
Microsoft Digital Defense Report  |  September 2020
3
Security and the remote work force
Introduction
Infrastructure for a remote workforce
Data sensitivity, compliance, and protection
People
Enterprise resilience: The new reality
TABLE OF CONTENTS    INTRODUCTION    THE STATE OF CYBERCRIME    NATION STATE THREATS    SECURITY AND THE REMOTE WORKFORCE    ACTIONABLE LEARNINGS    GLOSSARY
57
Microsoft Digital Defense Report  |  September 2020
Introduction
BRET ARSENAULT, MICROSOFT CHIEF INFORMATION SECURITY OFFICER
A hallmark of the digital economy in the 21st century is the ability of employees to work from anywhere, 
fueled by significant innovations in infrastructure, mobile endpoints, and communication applications. 
Although there were increasingly more opportunities to work remotely in recent years, the COVID-19 
pandemic catalyzed these efforts, forcing a significant portion of the workforce to work from home. As 
Microsoft CEO Satya Nadella stated, “We have seen two years’ worth of digital transformation in two months.”
43
The immediacy and scale of moving to a remote workforce brought along new security challenges. When 
Microsoft recommended employees work from home even before governmental regulations required it, its 
workforce was able to respond quickly. As long as employees had secure, adequate internet access at their 
remote locations, they could continue being fully productive and, most critically, they could protect themselves 
and their families from the pandemic. We were successful in making this transition because we invested in a 
Zero Trust architecture, including MFA, ubiquitous device management, and conditional access enforcement. The 
graph on this page shows how quickly Microsoft became a remote workforce and the scale at which we had to 
manage the requisite infrastructure, applications, and personnel. 
Microsoft employee badge scans for building access
43 https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoft-365/blog/2020/04/30/2-years-digital-transformation-2-months/Graph depicting employee badge scans from January 27 through April 27, 2020, with the peak at 102 thousand in February and dropping to 7 thousand in March.Icon representing the Security and the Remote Workforce chapter
TABLE OF CONTENTS    INTRODUCTION    THE STATE OF CYBERCRIME    NATION STATE THREATS    SECURITY AND THE REMOTE WORKFORCE    ACTIONABLE LEARNINGS    GLOSSARY
58
Microsoft Digital Defense Report  |  September 2020
As more organizations adapt to enabling secure remote work options, whether in the short or long term, 
cybersecurity provides the foundation for operational resiliency. Successful transition in any type of disruption 
requires a strategic combination of planning, response, and recovery. To maintain cyber resiliency, an 
organization should regularly evaluate its risk threshold and ability to operationally execute key processes 
through a combination of human efforts and technology products and services. 
This chapter provides a look at three areas of risk that have become more apparent with the rapid onset of a 
large-scale remote workforce. First, we’ll explain how organizations can support a secure, remote workforce 
through the principles of Zero Trust, including VPN architecture and virtualization—which helped enable 
Microsoft’s own transition to remote work. This section includes how we address security risks associated with 
managing devices not owned by an organization (and often owned by employees and partners). Second, we 
address the human element as fundamental to a secure workforce by looking at challenges such as insider 
threats and social engineering by malicious actors. Third, we explore lessons learned as we engaged in an 
exercise in enterprise resilience during the COVID-19 outbreak.
Security and remote workforce concerns
Security decision makers in the United States perceive their most common remote 
workforce challenge as remote workers making choices that reduce security. 
Securing personal devices for remote work and the increase in phishing campaigns 
and identity fraud are also concerns.44 
44 Based on 506 responses from U.S. security decision makers, representing organizations of 1,000+ employees (April–May 2020)Graph of CISO and other C-suite survey responses with respect to remote workforce concerns.
TABLE OF CONTENTS    INTRODUCTION    THE STATE OF CYBERCRIME    NATION STATE THREATS    SECURITY AND THE REMOTE WORKFORCE    ACTIONABLE LEARNINGS    GLOSSARY
59
Microsoft Digital Defense Report  |  September 2020
Infrastructure for a remote workforce
Infrastructure security is a fundamental concern when scaling a remote workforce. There’s a substantial 
difference between an infrastructure that supports employees taking laptops home to monitor email and a 
complete architecture for a mobile workforce. Originally built for in-office work, many infrastructures weren’t 
initially prepared for a large scale—and immediate—transition to a remote workforce.
Zero Trust security modelBest practice icon: our recommended controls.
 By treating every access attempt as if it were 
originating from an untrusted network, the Zero 
Trust strategy helps solidify the security of VPNs for 
working from home. This is precisely the approach 
needed with today’s remote workforces because 
they’re coming from untrusted home networks and 
the VPN architectures used to extend corporate 
networks are sometimes failing. 
Zero Trust defined: Instead of assuming everything 
behind the corporate firewall is safe, the Zero Trust 
model assumes a breach and verifies each request as 
though it originates from an open network. Regardless 
of where the request originates or what resource it 
accesses, Zero Trust teaches us to “never trust, always 
verify.” Every access is fully authenticated, authorized, 
and encrypted before granting access. Micro-
segmentation and least-privileged access principles 
are applied to minimize lateral movement. Rich 
intelligence and analytics are utilized to detect and 
respond to anomalies in real time. 
Zero Trust helps secure corporate resources by 
eliminating unknown and unmanaged devices 
and limiting lateral movement. As the COVID-19 
pandemic forced the “lift and shift” of the 
corporate workforce and much of its workload 
to a distributed—or even scattered—model, the 
notion of the corporate security perimeter changed 
dramatically. Traditional security policies within the 
perimeter became much harder to enforce across 
a wider network made up of home and other 
private networks and unmanaged assets in the 
connectivity path. Corporations that had already 
made investments, even partial investments, in areas 
that contribute to Zero Trust, were able to leverage 
advances already made by their security teams 
in areas such as strong identity, enrolled device 
management and device health, alternate access for 
unmanaged devices, and application health. Even 
in cases where these investments weren’t focused 
on a full Zero Trust implementation, they became 
the basis for improved security risk mitigation and 
management. They collectively helped enable the 
extension of the security perimeter to accommodate 
a physically dispersed workforce and related assets.
Microsoft’s approach to Zero Trust enablement 
allows for staggered or progressive enablement, 
where the highest priority capabilities—such as 
Identity as a Service (IDaaS)—can be invested in 
earlier, with other capabilities enabled subsequently. 
This approach allows customers the ability to 
plan their spend and make capital expenditures in 
alignment with essential business needs and growth 
opportunities.
From a technical perspective, Microsoft’s approach 
focuses on access architectures that use policy to 
explicitly validate the trustworthiness of users and 
devices. Through validation, Microsoft dynamically 
addresses insufficient trust via increasing assurance, 
limiting access, or blocking access altogether. This 
approach doesn’t rely on network architectures but 
instead uses IDaaS as the decision engine based 
on organizational policy. The result is mobility and 
choice to enable productivity for end users (and 
remote workers). This model can be extended 
further to allow users to choose any device from 
which to work because the access architectures 
can now account for the variability in trust of these 
potentially unmanaged devices.  
TABLE OF CONTENTS    INTRODUCTION    THE STATE OF CYBERCRIME    NATION STATE THREATS    SECURITY AND THE REMOTE WORKFORCE    ACTIONABLE LEARNINGS    GLOSSARY
60
Microsoft Digital Defense Report  |  September 2020
When we asked enterprise security decision makers about deploying Zero Trust, we learned that 
most have deployed it to some extent, and over half plan to speed up Zero Trust deployment.45
Impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on Zero Trust deploymentGraph depicting 55% of security decision makers plan to speed up deployment of Zero Trust capabilities.
Learn more:
Enable a remote workforce by embracing Zero Trust security
Implementing a Zero Trust security model at Microsoft 2019/08/06 
VPN architecture
Historically, VPNs have been used by organizations 
to extend their network to additional sites and 
individual users. Traffic from these sites or individual 
users was sent to a central site and then out to the 
internet. For security teams, the network was the 
original visibility and control plane, and for some 
companies, it remains a key component of their 
security strategy. It’s because of this reliance on 
network architectures that security teams tended to 
enforce the use of full VPN tunnels to extend their 
network security strategy. An architecture that routes 
all remote traffic back to the corporate network was 
originally intended to provide the security team with 
the following capabilities: 
•	 Prevention of unauthorized access 
•	 Control of authorized user access 
•	 Network protections such as intrusion detection 
and prevention (IDS/IPS) and DDoS mitigation 
•	 Data loss prevention
The infrastructure required to support the VPN 
architecture and related security stack was often 
designed to support only a small and controlled 
percentage of the user population at any given 
time. When some workforces moved to working 
nearly 100% remotely, their architectures became 
overtaxed under the increased load. That load 
included not only day-to-day work with email and 
documents, but also increased use of collaboration 
software utilizing audio and video, which would 
oftentimes be degraded. The full VPN tunnel 
architecture created usability issues for end users, 
and in some cases, the VPN infrastructures failed 
completely as a result. We reached out to 123 
customers during the initial weeks of the COVID-19 
outbreak after noting some latency in their audio or 
video quality owing to the traffic volume. To tackle 
this issue, some customers doubled down on their 
network architectures to increase capacity, while 
others looked for new ways to manage risk in a 
more direct-to-internet network architecture.
45 Based on 524 responses from security decision makers in the United States, the UK, and India representing organizations of 500+ employees (May 2020)
TABLE OF CONTENTS    INTRODUCTION    THE STATE OF CYBERCRIME    NATION STATE THREATS    SECURITY AND THE REMOTE WORKFORCE    ACTIONABLE LEARNINGS    GLOSSARY
Controlling access to corporate resources
Personally owned, unmanaged devices that access organizational resources are a security risk associated with 
remote workforces, as well as third-party vendors and partners.  
As part of Microsoft’s Zero Trust strategy leveraging Azure AD Conditional Access, we can block direct access to 
Microsoft systems from unmanaged devices, but allow the employee to decide if they would like to enroll their 
personal device into management in order to gain access. For unmanaged devices, we provide an alternative 
access in the form of a rich desktop environment through Windows Virtual Desktop (WVD). Leveraging WVD 
and Azure Firewall, we can control who accesses information via identified devices. Moreover, through the 
nature of this virtualized environment, we effectively prohibit the export of information from our Microsoft-
controlled environments while assuring our users’ productivity.  
An additional risk, which is related to supply chain, is the manageability of devices not owned by the 
organization but being managed by another organization. A key aspect of this risk is the technical limitation 
preventing two device management solutions from being deployed on one system. For example, a partner 
device enrolled in the company’s device management system and using the policies defined by the company 
could not also be enrolled in the Microsoft device management system and use the Microsoft policies. 
Furthermore, there would be no guarantee or real-time visibility into the compliance state of those policies. As a 
result, the options are:    
1.	 Assume an implicit trust that the partner device is managed and has the appropriate policies deployed 
and monitored for health.
2.	 Put an expectation in place that the partner must unenroll their device from their company management, 
which would make their device unable to access their own company resources. A security risk associated 
with remote workforces, as well as third-party vendors and partners, is a personally owned, unmanaged 
device used from home that accesses organizational resources.  
3.	 Migrate the partner to a virtualized experience, providing them the ability to access resources where the 
data and controls continue to be managed by the organization, and their company policies continue to 
be managed on the device.
Learn more:
Security guidance for remote desktop adoption 
2020/04/16
Enable a remote workforce by embracing Zero Trust 
security
Implementing Zero Trust with Microsoft Azure: 
Identity and Access Management 2020/01/21
Zero Trust Strategy: What Good Looks Like 
2019/11/11
Microsoft Digital Defense Report  |  September 2020
61
TABLE OF CONTENTS    INTRODUCTION    THE STATE OF CYBERCRIME    NATION STATE THREATS    SECURITY AND THE REMOTE WORKFORCE    ACTIONABLE LEARNINGS    GLOSSARY
62
Microsoft Digital Defense Report  |  September 2020
Devices and patch management  
While many IT departments supported remote work 
as an option, systems management strategies had 
been based on the assumption that hardware assets 
would typically return to the corporate network after 
only a short leave. This assumption, combined with 
a desire to reduce the load on VPN concentrators 
and to avoid unapproved updates, led to policies 
that prevent laptops from downloading updates 
when not on the corporate network, and then only 
from on-premises patch management systems. In 
other words, policies controlling settings were based 
on architecture decisions made for a workforce 
expected to return to the office on a regular basis 
and weren’t even being refreshed in some of these 
systems. As the COVID-19 outbreak stretched 
into its third month, many organizations were left 
struggling with multiple rounds of missing critical 
patches. Having a remote workforce will necessitate 
shifts in how IT departments handle patches, as 
systems management can’t rely on assets returning 
regularly to the corporate network.Best practice icon: our recommended controls.
 IT staff should review patching polices and 
compliance regularly. If systems are governed by 
policies that prevent them from receiving new 
updates when not on the internal network, or are 
unable to receive new policies, consider alternate 
methods to deliver policy changes. Cloud-based 
management solutions and configuration scripts 
deployed via VPN logons are some of the options 
available. These alternatives can enable refreshed 
settings on devices, allowing them to download 
patches directly from internet sources such as 
Windows Update instead of waiting to physically 
return to the organization’s internal network.
Attacks on infrastructure: DDoS   
DDoS attacks are some of the largest availability and 
security issues facing customers who are moving 
their applications to the cloud, making these attacks 
a significant concern for a remote workforce. A 
DDoS attack attempts to exhaust an application’s 
resources, making the application unavailable to 
legitimate users. This type of attack can be costly to 
the business in terms of time, resources, and even 
customer attrition. 
DDoS attacks can be targeted at any endpoint that’s 
publicly reachable through the internet. While the 
technology to set up DDoS attacks continues to 
increase in sophistication, they remain relatively 
simple and low cost to launch. This low barrier for 
use is driving up the frequency and ease with which 
bad actors can wreak havoc on both businesses 
and users. 
Cybercriminals are leveraging the surge in internet 
traffic owing to the COVID-19 outbreak (with more 
online meetings, education settings, and other 
forms of virtual communication) to make DDoS 
attacks easier, because when trying to disrupt a site 
(such as banking, hospitals, or governments), the 
attackers don’t have to generate as much traffic for 
the disruption. In addition to utilizing the increase 
in traffic, cybercriminals are looking to blend in with 
the traffic stream to create attack traffic that’s harder 
to distinguish from bona fide traffic. 
DDoS attacks are often used as a smoke screen, 
obfuscating more malicious and harmful infiltrations 
of an organization’s resources. Disruption might 
be intended solely to bring down a site or to keep 
the security and IT personnel distracted from the 
cybercriminal’s actual intended target. This kind of 
misdirection is a useful tool for cybercriminals. They 
might attack the ”front door” of a company while 
working on a back-end server that they find, keeping 
the security team busy with what appears to be a 
higher urgency issue of, say, keeping the company 
website up. Furthermore, since more personnel are 
working from home, responses might not be as 
efficient as they were previously. 
TABLE OF CONTENTS    INTRODUCTION    THE STATE OF CYBERCRIME    NATION STATE THREATS    SECURITY AND THE REMOTE WORKFORCE    ACTIONABLE LEARNINGS    GLOSSARY
63
Microsoft Digital Defense Report  |  September 2020Telemetry icon: here’s what we're seeing.
 In analyzing cloud-based incoming attacks 
as seen through Azure DDoS protection, Microsoft 
threat researchers found that such attacks have been 
significant in terms of volume and occur on a regular 
basis. Microsoft observed an increase in DDoS 
attacks during March 2020, following the COVID-19 
outbreak, continuing on an upward trend through 
April. The company mitigated 600 to 1,000 unique 
DDoS attacks every day in March, or approximately 
50% more than pre-COVID-19 levels. Best practice icon: our recommended controls.
 In developing a strategy for DDoS protection, 
make sure your cloud and service providers’ DDoS 
protection is enabled.
Learn more about best practices in DDoS 
protection:
Azure DDoS Protection: Designing resilient solutions 
2018/10/18
Number of DDoS attacks during COVID-19 outbreak
DDoS attack type (January–June 2020)
Destination region distribution (January–June 2020)Graph depicting distributed denial of service attacks increase in number with the start of the COVID-19 outbreak.Graph depicting duration of distributed denial of service attacks, with over 90% being shorter than 4 hours.Chart of distributed denial of service attack types, with the largest category being SYN flood.
96.88% of attacks are of small duration (January–June 2020)Chart of destination regions distribution of distributed denial of service attacks, with United States at 43%, followed by UAE at 17% and France at 11%.
TABLE OF CONTENTS    INTRODUCTION    THE STATE OF CYBERCRIME    NATION STATE THREATS    SECURITY AND THE REMOTE WORKFORCE    ACTIONABLE LEARNINGS    GLOSSARY
64
Microsoft Digital Defense Report  |  September 2020
Cybercriminal DDoS services  
Professional cybercriminal DDoS services are 
prevalent on the dark web. Fees paid for these 
services vary based on factors such as the defenses 
of the sites being attacked, the type of DDoS attack, 
the bandwidth needed to conduct the attack, and 
the regional forum from which the attacker buys the 
service. In May 2020, the average price of a one-day 
DDoS attack service was $134.09, with some services 
offered for as little as $15.00 and the most expensive 
being $416.67.
As with most mature cybercriminal services, 
professional DDoS services have reached equilibrium 
between supply and demand, which has resulted in 
relatively stable prices over the last seven years, with 
the exception of shorter duration attacks. 
•	 The average price for DDoS attacks of 
approximately one hour has increased from 
$14.71 in July 2019 to $48.63 in May 2020.  
•	 The average price for DDoS attacks of 
approximately one day has increased from 
$74.97 in November 2019 to $134.09 in 
May 2020. Graph depicting average process for cybercriminal distributed denial of service attack services, ranging from approximately $10 for 1 hour duration to $1000 for a one-month duration.
TABLE OF CONTENTS    INTRODUCTION    THE STATE OF CYBERCRIME    NATION STATE THREATS    SECURITY AND THE REMOTE WORKFORCE    ACTIONABLE LEARNINGS    GLOSSARY
Trends and approximate average price for cybercriminal DDoS attack services
65
Microsoft Digital Defense Report  |  September 2020
Data sensitivity, compliance, and protection: 
Information rights management
Organizations are constantly on the watch to make 
sure the sensitive information throughout their 
entire data estate is protected. This concern is driven 
by a confluence of:
•	 Growing privacy awareness in customers.
•	 Increasing government regulation of how 
sensitive data is handled.
•	 Needing to ensure that only the right people 
and system processes have access to sensitive 
information—and only when needed.
Any new data estate added to an organization must 
be accounted for as a new variable. Security teams 
must work continuously to discover sensitive data 
and to classify, label, and protect it from all the 
various ingress and egress points in an ever-growing 
perimeter. 
With remote workforces becoming the new 
paradigm, organizations’ information rights 
management (IRM) practices need to permeate 
further into their remote working behaviors and 
solutions, especially when working with sensitive 
information. This information can range from 
new marketing campaigns and product design to 
patents, financial information, or images. 
With workforces becoming more remote, more 
teams need to collaborate on these vital assets 
without being physically together. Organizations are 
rising to the challenge with increased use of IRM 
to enforce policies aimed at protecting confidential 
information and intellectual property.Telemetry icon: here’s what we're seeing.
 With the changes in the workforce 
environment, we’ve observed IRM use growing at a 
steady rate. As of June 2020, there were 22 million 
monthly active users, with an increase of more than 
1 million in just three and a half weeks. An initial 
dip in use during the COVID-19 outbreak as schools 
and universities closed was offset by the many 
enterprises encrypting their content, most notably 
system integrator customers.
Learn more:
https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/information-
protection/
https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/Exchange/
policy-and-compliance/information-rights-
management?view=exchserver-2019Table depicting IRM monthly, weekly, and daily active users from Jan 2020 to June 2020, on a scale from zero to 25 million users.Infographic depicting two individuals with different IRM access levels. 
TABLE OF CONTENTS    INTRODUCTION    THE STATE OF CYBERCRIME    NATION STATE THREATS    SECURITY AND THE REMOTE WORKFORCE    ACTIONABLE LEARNINGS    GLOSSARY
IRM active users
People
Identity and access management 
Azure Active Directory (Azure AD), Microsoft’s identity platform, is used by organizations for authenticating their 
users to provide access to their applications and infrastructure. As the first line of defense to better protect users 
from account compromise, organizations leverage Azure AD’s MFA capabilities. MFA is a process in which the 
system prompts a user for an additional form of identification during sign-in, such as entering a code sent to 
another device they own or providing a fingerprint scan. Organizations set authentication policies to define the 
conditions under which users can access resources. For example, a policy might enforce MFA when a user logs in 
from a new device, new location, or other criteria that enforce their security posture. Telemetry icon: here’s what we're seeing.
 As a result of companies closing office access and limiting travel, user authentication patterns have 
changed. We saw an approximate twofold increase in MFA-enablement requests after the onset of the COVID-19 
outbreak, as work-from-home policies were enacted. The higher level of MFA traffic continued as many 
organizations adopted the use of MFA to support a workforce that was no longer on company networks.
Microsoft data 
indicates that the 
vast majority of 
Microsoft enterprise 
accounts that were 
compromised didn’t 
use multi-factor 
authentication 
66
Microsoft Digital Defense Report  |  September 2020Graph depicting weekly MFA enablement request volume increase beginning in March 2020
TABLE OF CONTENTS    INTRODUCTION    THE STATE OF CYBERCRIME    NATION STATE THREATS    SECURITY AND THE REMOTE WORKFORCE    ACTIONABLE LEARNINGS    GLOSSARY
Weekly MFA enablement request volume, February 3–April 6, 2020
Identity-based attacks Telemetry icon: here’s what we're seeing.
 Azure AD saw an increase in identity-based 
attacks using brute force on enterprise accounts 
during the first half of 2020. Cybercriminals 
appeared to leverage the disruption caused by 
organizations’ COVID-19 response and shift to 
remote workforces to hide their activities. 
Password brute force attempts against 
Azure AD accountsGraph depicting increases in brute force attempts against Azure Active Directory accounts between January and June 2020.Best practice icon: our recommended controls.
 Strong authentication, such as passwordless or 
MFA, are the most effective means of defending 
against these kinds of attacks. Telemetry icon: here’s what we're seeing.
 Most of these attacks happen on legacy 
authentication protocols, such as POP, SMTP, IMAP, 
and MAPI, which don’t support MFA. Microsoft’s 
research of previous identity-related attacks 
indicates that more than 99% of password spray 
attacks use legacy authentication protocols, and 
more than 97% of credential stuffing attacks use 
legacy authentication. Given the frequency of 
passwords being guessed, phished, stolen with 
malware, or reused, it’s critical for people to pair 
passwords with some form of strong credential. 
Therefore, disabling legacy authentication and 
enabling MFA is a critical call to action. Azure AD 
accounts in organizations that have disabled legacy 
authentication experience 67% fewer compromises 
than those in which legacy authentication is enabled. Photo depicting an open laptop on a desk.
Microsoft Digital Defense Report  |  September 2020
67
TABLE OF CONTENTS    INTRODUCTION    THE STATE OF CYBERCRIME    NATION STATE THREATS    SECURITY AND THE REMOTE WORKFORCE    ACTIONABLE LEARNINGS    GLOSSARY
Insider threats 
Countless security officers across the world are now asking themselves, “Is my organization effectively 
prepared to identify and remediate increasing insider risks?” One reason for this question is COVID-19 and the 
subsequent rapid digital transformation it has forced organizations to undertake. According to a recent survey, 
the lives of up to 300 million information workers worldwide have been upended, and many are now working 
remotely with limited resources and increased stress.46 These employees are not only logging into enterprise 
environments and line-of-business applications but also accessing, editing, and sharing sensitive data. 
Organizations face a broad range of risks from insidersInfographic depicting risks from insiders: data spillage, confidentiality violations, IP theft, workplace violence, fraud, policy violations, insider trading, conflicts of interest, leaks of sensitive data, workplace harassment, corporate espionage, and regulatory compliance violations.
While some of these activities might happen via a company-managed device, owing to the rapid progression 
of the pandemic, many information workers are working from their personal PCs or other shared devices. 
Employees working from home can be subject to increased distractions, such as shared home workspaces and 
remote schooling for children. According to the SEI CERT institute,47 user distractions are the cause of many 
accidental and non-malicious insider risks. 
In addition, the current environment has significantly increased stressors such as potential job loss or health 
and safety concerns, which might lead to some employees participating in malicious activities, such as stealing 
intellectual property. An additional stressor to consider is the impact of the physical isolation and limited social 
interaction that has resulted from the abrupt shift to a remote workforce.
68
Microsoft Digital Defense Report  |  September 2020
46 https://www.bcg.com/publications/2020/covid-remote-work-cyber-security.aspx
47 https://www.sei.cmu.edu/news-events/news/article.cfm?assetId=638958
48 Based on 150 responses from security decision makers in the United States, representing organizations of 300+ employees (June 2020)Graph depicting stressors that increase insider risks in order of prevalence, including remote work, potential job loss, blurring of work-life balance, external stressors, minimal social interaction, increased hours or workload, or none of the above.
TABLE OF CONTENTS    INTRODUCTION    THE STATE OF CYBERCRIME    NATION STATE THREATS    SECURITY AND THE REMOTE WORKFORCE    ACTIONABLE LEARNINGS    GLOSSARY
Stressors that increase insider risks in a remote work environment48
Understanding and managing the complexities of insider risk requires a proactive approach, incorporating 
organizational, risk management, and cultural considerations. We consider the following elements to be critical 
to an insider risk management program:Photo depicting a worker using a laptop and headset while seated on an office couch.
Microsoft Digital Defense Report  |  September 2020
69Infographic depicting transparency, cloud-first intelligence, and dynamic integration as leading practices for a modern insider threat program. Best practice icon: our recommended controls.
 Leading practices for a modern insider threat program
TABLE OF CONTENTS    INTRODUCTION    THE STATE OF CYBERCRIME    NATION STATE THREATS    SECURITY AND THE REMOTE WORKFORCE    ACTIONABLE LEARNINGS    GLOSSARY
70
Microsoft Digital Defense Report  |  September 2020
Insider Risk Management
In talking with customers around the world, we’ve heard that the move to remote work has amplified the need 
for an end-to-end insider risk solution.
 Telemetry icon: here’s what we're seeing.
 In a recent survey conducted by Microsoft, 73% of CISOs indicate 
that their organization encountered leaks of sensitive data and 
data spillage in the last 12 months, and they plan to spend more 
on insider risk technology owing to the COVID-19 pandemic.
49
Customers we spoke to were using a fractured and 
expensive approach in trying to identify insider 
risks. They captured signals by using a user activity 
monitoring solution and fed these signals into a 
separate user entity behavior analytics solution, 
with the hopes of finding the proverbial needle in 
the haystack. We know from our own experience 
in attempting to deploy these complex types of 
solutions at Microsoft that not only is the approach 
not scalable, but often it results in a lot of noise, as 
they lack enrichment, owing to limited visibility into 
the sensitivity of the data and lack of 
broader context.
While having broad visibility into signals from 
end-user activities, actions, or communications is 
important, when it comes to effectively identifying 
the risks, the quality of signals matters most. 
On devices, we continue to leverage the agentless 
capture of signals from Windows 10 endpoints to 
deliver new signals, including: 
•	 Files transferred to network shares.
•	 Files uploaded to unallowed domains.
•	 Files downloaded from enterprise sites.
•	 Files being renamed.
We’re leveraging Microsoft Defender Advanced 
Threat Protection to capture security signals on the 
endpoint about:
•	 Defense evasion (disabling MFA).
•	 Installation of unwanted software.
In the cloud, native integration with Microsoft 365 
allows us to capture billons of additional signals 
from Teams, SharePoint, and Exchange, including:
•	 Sharing files, folders, or sites from SharePoint 
Online to unallowed domains.
•	 Downloading content from Teams.
•	 Emailing outside the organization to 
unallowed domains.
Finally, one of the key early indicators as to whether 
someone might choose to participate in malicious 
activities is disgruntlement. We’re further enhancing 
our native HR connector to capture signals related 
to employee performance which might indicate 
disgruntlement, including whether the user:
•	 Is on a performance improvement plan.
•	 Was recently demoted.
•	 Had a poor performance review.Best practice icon: our recommended controls.
 Successful insider risk management programs 
are built on a framework to identify insider risks with 
integrated processes which enable collaboration 
between key stakeholders across the organization 
to take action. It’s not just a security issue, but one 
that requires collaboration between security, HR, 
and legal teams to ensure insider risks are identified 
and acted upon in a manner that’s compliant with 
regulatory employment requirements.
Learn more:
Insider risk management in Microsoft 365 2020/07/21
What’s new in Microsoft 365 Compliance and Risk 
Management 2020/06/11
Washington Post: The risks from within 2020/03/11
49 Based on 150 responses from security decision makers in the United States, representing organizations of 300+ employees (June 2020)
TABLE OF CONTENTS    INTRODUCTION    THE STATE OF CYBERCRIME    NATION STATE THREATS    SECURITY AND THE REMOTE WORKFORCE    ACTIONABLE LEARNINGS    GLOSSARY
Enterprise resilience: The new reality  
The circumstances of the extended COVID-19 
pandemic, and the corporate response to it, 
present an opportunity to forge resilience into the 
enterprise. We must fold the lessons we’ve learned—
and the various strategies that we deployed to 
survive the pandemic—into our broader 
enterprise vision. 
To some degree, the enterprise response to 
COVID-19 changed our operational procedures as 
well as the very vocabulary that we use to describe 
the reactive measures and lessons learned. Terms  
such as “extended security boundary,” “pandemic 
resilience,” and “human infrastructure” are now the 
subject of executive analyses and board briefings 
around the globe. This new vocabulary highlights 
the emergence of critical areas of resilience that 
enterprises traditionally didn’t scrutinize.    
Based on measures that have been put into place 
to improve our security posture and incorporate the 
lessons learned since the outbreak of COVID-19, 
three critical areas have arisen to guide the drive 
toward enterprise resilience. All three are anchored 
in planning for the unanticipated.   
Critical area 1 
Extending the enterprise security boundary 
beyond the on-site perimeter
The unanticipated shift of such a large percentage of 
the workforce to a remote work setting hasn’t only 
transitioned work, data, and intellectual property 
from enterprise-managed facilities to workers’ 
homes, but it has also extended the security 
boundary beyond the enterprise facility’s perimeter. 
Security teams must now worry about the increased 
risk of exfiltration or leakage of sensitive data. They 
must be prepared to respond to breaches in the 
extended perimeters of the remote workforce’s 
kitchens and home offices. They must ensure 
the security of assets, services, and infrastructure 
that extend beyond the corporate perimeter, and 
possibly even beyond the management and control 
of corporate policy. They must ensure the privacy 
and confidentiality of data and any associated data 
subject rights, and they must protect corporate 
intellectual property that’s distributed across 
potentially less secure home internet connections 
and varying grades of Wi-Fi systems and 
communication channels. 
The strategies to support an extended security 
boundary include expanding VPN capabilities 
to implementing Zero Trust networking with 
capabilities such as stronger identity management, 
device management and device health, alternate 
access for unmanaged devices, stronger network 
segmentation and isolation of resources, and checks 
on application health. 
Critical area 2
Prioritizing resilient performance 
Just as the pandemic challenged health officials 
to find ways of protecting public safety, its 
economic implications stretched corporate leaders 
to contemplate how to sustain productivity 
through the massive lift-and-shift exercise where 
workloads and workforces moved away from their 
facilities. To better understand what needed to 
be moved, corporations identified critical services 
and processes to ensure they weren’t abandoned 
by personnel who needed on-site or break-glass 
access—in other words, a real-time demonstration 
of enterprise preparedness. In continuing to learn 
from this exercise in preparedness, enterprises 
need to take a closer look at the productivity and 
performance of critical services and processes. 
Critical area 3
Validating the resilience of the human 
infrastructure 
With such a large percentage of the workforce 
physically distant from management and other 
coworkers, the potential of new risks around 
workforce attrition, disengagement, and divestment 
need to be examined in this new context. Corporate 
human resource departments are shifting their focus 
from discussion of work-life balance to work-life 
integration. A key takeaway in the area of human 
infrastructure is to embed practices that measure 
the sustainability of the human capital that the 
enterprise has invested in, including its workforce, 
suppliers, partners, and customers. 
These three critical areas can serve as the basis for 
reinforcing enterprise strategy if their core constructs 
are already included in the vision. If they aren’t, they 
can be readily dovetailed into the vision and strategy 
as learnings from the COVID-19 pandemic and the 
response to it, in order to demonstrate and ensure 
enterprise resilience.
71
Microsoft Digital Defense Report  |  September 2020
TABLE OF CONTENTS    INTRODUCTION    THE STATE OF CYBERCRIME    NATION STATE THREATS    SECURITY AND THE REMOTE WORKFORCE    ACTIONABLE LEARNINGS    GLOSSARY
          Go to Actionable Learnings
Learn more:  The future of business resilience
72
Microsoft Digital Defense Report  |  September 2020
4
Actionable learnings
Steps you can take today
Contributing teams at Microsoft
TABLE OF CONTENTS    INTRODUCTION    THE STATE OF CYBERCRIME    NATION STATE THREATS    SECURITY AND THE REMOTE WORKFORCE    ACTIONABLE LEARNINGS    GLOSSARY
73
Microsoft Digital Defense Report  |  September 2020
Steps you can take today
Based on the information learned from the research and intelligence described in this report, we recommend 
organizations take a proactive approach to shoring up their security and resiliency by using the following controls. 
While all these learnings are valid and beneficial recommendations for a cybersecurity program, we’ve selected 
our most salient points for each chapter and mapped them with icons as shown below.  
Icons representing a
ll three chapters: 
State of Cybercri
me, Nation State
 Threats, and Secur
ity and the Remote 
Workforce.
Actionable learnings
Chapter mapping
Adopt MFA
Multi-factor authentication can stop credential-based attacks dead in their tracks. Without access to the additional factor, the attacker 
can’t access the account or protected resource. MFA should be mandatory for all admin accounts and is strongly recommended for all 
users. The preferred method is to use an authenticator app rather than SMS or voice where possible. 
  
Go passwordless
For organizations that use modern technologies like Windows 10, we recommend going passwordless by using face authentication, 
fingerprints, or a PIN code. For organizations with applications or workloads that can’t be transitioned to passwordless, we recommend 
adopting a secure password management solution, such as a password locker or vault and requiring that employees use unique, 
randomized passwords for access to all sensitive information and on all servers and devices, including IoT and IoT controllers and network 
infrastructure such as switches, routers, and firewalls.Icon representing the State of Cybercrime chapterIcon representing the Nation State Threats chapterIcon representing the Security and the Remote Workforce chapterIcon representing the Security and the Remote Workforce chapter
TABLE OF CONTENTS    INTRODUCTION    THE STATE OF CYBERCRIME    NATION STATE THREATS    SECURITY AND THE REMOTE WORKFORCE    ACTIONABLE LEARNINGS    GLOSSARY
74
Microsoft Digital Defense Report  |  September 2020
Actionable learnings
Chapter mapping
Use good email hygiene
Because 90% of attacks start with an email, preventing phishing (and its voicemail- and text-based variants, vishing and SMiShing) can 
limit the opportunity for attackers to succeed. Email hygiene platforms that incorporate filtering on the way in and link checking, like 
Safelinks, when clicked (the way out) provide the most comprehensive protection. Consider limiting or disabling autoforwarding for email 
unless you have a strong business need for it.
  
Modernize VPN architectures
Virtual private networks enable secure communications back to a central point. However, most organizations have transitioned significant 
amounts of workloads to the cloud, making it unnecessary to point 100% of traffic back to the corporate VPN concentrator. A split tunnel 
allows cloud traffic to connect to cloud resources securely, reducing load and overhead on the corporate VPN.
Patch apps and systems
Vendors are continually making security improvements and fixes, so it’s important to ensure that apps or platforms are using the most up-to-
date versions, including patches for existing VPN architectures. Ransomware operators and nation state actors have found network devices 
like gateway and VPN appliances to be a practical target for intrusion. Apply all available security updates for VPN and firewall configurations. 
Monitor and pay special attention to remote access infrastructure. Any detections from security products or anomalies found in event logs 
should be investigated immediately. In the event of a compromise, ensure that any account used on these devices has a password reset 
because the credentials could have been exfiltrated.
  
Manage configuration changes
Misconfigurations are another prominent attack vector and an example of how small changes can result in big problems. Implementing a 
robust change management program enables companies to review changes before they’re made and confirm that the change won’t open 
a new attack path or otherwise put the organization at risk.
 Icon representing the State of Cybercrime chapterIcon representing the Nation State Threats chapterIcon representing the Security and the Remote Workforce chapterIcon representing the Security and the Remote Workforce chapterIcon representing the State of Cybercrime chapterIcon representing the Nation State Threats chapterIcon representing the Security and the Remote Workforce chapterIcon representing the State of Cybercrime chapterIcon representing the Security and the Remote Workforce chapter
TABLE OF CONTENTS    INTRODUCTION    THE STATE OF CYBERCRIME    NATION STATE THREATS    SECURITY AND THE REMOTE WORKFORCE    ACTIONABLE LEARNINGS    GLOSSARY
75
Microsoft Digital Defense Report  |  September 2020
Actionable learnings
Chapter mapping
Implement a secure software development lifecycle 
Every organization is engaged in software development, whether they write it themselves or purchase it from a vendor. Even if robust 
controls are in place lower in the stack, the organization is at risk if the app layer isn’t secure. We recommend a robust software 
development lifecycle that includes threat modeling, design reviews, and static and dynamic application testing, in addition to penetration 
testing in production.
Take a 3-2-1 approach to backups
Backups are essential for resilience after an organization has been breached. Apply the 3-2-1 rule for maximum protection and availability: 
3 copies, original + 2 backups, 2 storage types, and 1 offsite or cold copy.
Monitor cross-cloud security
Most companies today use multiple cloud providers, and without visibility across all the clouds, including the IaaS and SaaS layers, 
organizations don’t have a complete view of their risk profile. Modern SOCs should leverage SIEM tools that can collect and analyze 
signals from all clouds in use and leverage a cloud access security broker (CASB) as appropriate for audit and control of SaaS.
Limit access with least privilege
To limit the risk of intentional, and unintentional, insider risk, practice the principle of least privilege and maintain good credential hygiene. 
Avoid the use of domain-wide, admin-level service accounts. Restricting local administrative privileges can help limit installation of remote 
access trojans and other unwanted applications.
  Icon representing the State of Cybercrime chapterIcon representing the State of Cybercrime chapterIcon representing the Nation State Threats chapterIcon representing the State of Cybercrime chapterIcon representing the Nation State Threats chapterIcon representing the Security and the Remote Workforce chapter
TABLE OF CONTENTS    INTRODUCTION    THE STATE OF CYBERCRIME    NATION STATE THREATS    SECURITY AND THE REMOTE WORKFORCE    ACTIONABLE LEARNINGS    GLOSSARY
76
Microsoft Digital Defense Report  |  September 2020
Actionable learnings
Chapter mapping
Leverage machine learning to increase fidelity and reduce alert fatigue
The explosion of data and signals has overwhelmed many SOCs and analysts. Look for modern SIEMs that use technologies like machine 
learning to reduce the false positives and bubble up the alerts that really matter. ML can also help identify attackers that are using 
behavioral-based attacks that might not be detected by traditional, rules-based systems.
Closely monitor legacy, certified, and industrial control systems
Keeping operating systems and apps patched and up to date is the best way to protect them. However, some systems can’t be upgraded 
or patched owing to restrictions like certification levels or business limitations. For devices and apps that can’t be patched or upgraded, 
additional monitoring can be tuned to keep a closer eye on access and behavior of legacy devices. Segmentation (covered below) is also 
an important control here. 
Slow attacks with network segmentation
When vulnerabilities are found on a number of systems, an attack can rip through a flat network in a matter of minutes. Additionally, 
devices and systems with highly sensitive data often need to be protected at higher levels of control. Segmenting networks provides 
security to limit the spread of attacks and enables organizations to place stricter controls in front of sensitive enclaves. Segmentation can 
also help to protect unpatched or unpatchable systems from attack.
Network design
Inf
ographic depicting benefit of network s
egmentation.
  Icon representing the State of Cybercrime chapterIcon representing the Nation State Threats chapterIcon representing the State of Cybercrime chapterIcon representing the Nation State Threats chapterIcon representing the Security and the Remote Workforce chapter
TABLE OF CONTENTS    INTRODUCTION    THE STATE OF CYBERCRIME    NATION STATE THREATS    SECURITY AND THE REMOTE WORKFORCE    ACTIONABLE LEARNINGS    GLOSSARY
77
Microsoft Digital Defense Report  |  September 2020
Actionable learnings
Chapter mapping
Manage the convergence of OT and IT 
Traditionally cordoned-off OT networks are converging with IT networks. Many OT networks relied on segmentation and access controls 
for security, but as they’re opened to the internet and the cloud, they’re increasingly overlapping with IT. Organizations must have a 
strategy in place to protect OT post-convergence.
Secure IoT and IIoT
The IoT and the Industrial Internet of Things (IIoT) are pushing the boundary of security management. Many IIoT devices are legacy 
brownfield and dependent on older OT-type protections. For comprehensive security, organizations must bring IoT and IIoT into their 
security program, with management and governance for the legacy devices and systems, and by building out modern, trusted solutions 
for greenfield deployments. For more on this approach, see The Seven Properties of Highly Secure Devices.
Know your perimeter
Endpoints are a common target for attackers. Weak endpoints can become beachheads for network infiltration and reconnaissance 
activity. With the COVID-19-driven shift to remote workforces, endpoints are farther away from the corporate network and sprawling with 
new software installs for video conferencing and other collaborative activities. A robust endpoint detection and response solution must be 
installed on endpoints to keep them protected, and some form of endpoint management is strongly recommended.
 
Limit perimeter exposure
Understand and control perimeter exposure. Attacks often start with devices that aren’t in asset inventories but are still members of the 
primary Active Directory domain. These devices often have matching local admin passwords or service accounts with highly privileged 
domain credentials logging on to them. To limit perimeter exposure, an organization needs an up-to-date inventory that includes all 
members of the Active Directory domain, and these devices should be monitored and managed. Perimeter exposure can also be managed 
on the network by implementing segmentation (via switches, routers, firewalls) and throughout the cloud with solutions such as CASBs.Icon representing the State of Cybercrime chapterIcon representing the State of Cybercrime chapterIcon representing the Nation State Threats chapterIcon representing the Security and the Remote Workforce chapterIcon representing the Security and the Remote Workforce chapter
TABLE OF CONTENTS    INTRODUCTION    THE STATE OF CYBERCRIME    NATION STATE THREATS    SECURITY AND THE REMOTE WORKFORCE    ACTIONABLE LEARNINGS    GLOSSARY
78
Microsoft Digital Defense Report  |  September 2020
Actionable learnings
Chapter mapping
Build a third-party risk program
Partners, suppliers, and contractors interact with data and applications connected to an organization’s corporate environments, and 
attackers are increasingly targeting providers, like MSSPs, in order to gain access to the MSSP’s clients’ credentials and networks. This 
means that your partner’s risk is your inherited risk, and it should be managed through robust service level agreements, attestations, and 
shared assessments like SSAE 18 SOC 1 and SOC 2, PCI-DSS, GDPR, and ISO 20001.
Invest in user training (and keep training)
Users can be the weakest link or the first line of defense. When security awareness is institutionalized at an organizational level, end users 
can be the early responders to activity that might indicate compromise. Train users on what attacks look like and provide them with a way 
to report unusual activity.
 
Adopt a Zero Trust mindset
Instead of assuming everything behind the corporate firewall is safe, assume breach and verify each request as though it originates from 
an open network. Regardless of where the request originates or what resource it accesses, every request is fully authenticated, authorized, 
and encrypted before granting access. Icon representing the State of Cybercrime chapterIcon representing the State of Cybercrime chapterIcon representing the Security and the Remote Workforce chapterIcon representing the Security and the Remote Workforce chapter
TABLE OF CONTENTS    INTRODUCTION    THE STATE OF CYBERCRIME    NATION STATE THREATS    SECURITY AND THE REMOTE WORKFORCE    ACTIONABLE LEARNINGS    GLOSSARY
79
Microsoft Digital Defense Report  |  September 2020Photo depicting people working in a conference room.
Contributing teams at Microsoft
The insights in this report, as well as the actionable learnings above, have been provided by a diverse group 
of security-focused individuals who work across dozens of different teams at Microsoft. Collectively, their 
goal is to protect Microsoft, Microsoft customers, and the world at large from the threat of cyberattacks. 
We’re proud to share these insights in a spirt of transparency, with a common goal of making the digital 
world a safer place for everyone.
Cyber Defense Operations Center (CDOC)  
A cybersecurity and defense facility that brings together security professionals from across the company to 
protect Microsoft’s corporate infrastructure and the cloud infrastructure to which customers have access. 
Incident responders sit alongside data scientists and security engineers from across Microsoft’s services, 
products, and devices groups to help protect, detect, and respond to threats 24x7.
Customer Security and Trust (CST)   
A cross-disciplinary team driving continuous improvement of customer security in our products and online 
services. Working with engineering and security teams across the company, the mission of CST is to ensure 
compliance and enhance security and transparency to protect our customers and promote global trust in 
Microsoft. They formulate and advocate cybersecurity policy globally, advance digital peace through multi- 
stakeholder collaboration, focus on digital safety to protect customers from harmful online content and 
collaborate with public and private organizations to disrupt cyberattacks and support deterrence efforts.
79
Microsoft Digital Defense Report  |  September 2020
TABLE OF CONTENTS    INTRODUCTION    THE STATE OF CYBERCRIME    NATION STATE THREATS    SECURITY AND THE REMOTE WORKFORCE    ACTIONABLE LEARNINGS    GLOSSARY
80
Microsoft Digital Defense Report  |  September 2020Photo depicting workers in cyber defense operations office.
Detection and Response Team (DART)
A Microsoft team whose mission is to respond to security incidents and help Microsoft customers become 
cyber-resilient. DART leverages Microsoft’s strategic partnerships with security organizations around the world 
and with internal Microsoft product groups to provide the most complete and thorough investigations possible. 
DART’s expertise has been leveraged by government and commercial entities around the world to help secure 
their most sensitive, critical environments.
Digital Security & Risk Engineering (DSRE) 
A Microsoft organization developed with a mission to enable Microsoft to build the most trusted devices and 
services, while keeping our company safe and our data protected. Across the company, DSRE is continually 
evolving the security strategy and taking actions to protect Microsoft assets and the data of our customers.
Digital Security Unit (DSU) 
A team of cybersecurity attorneys and strategic cyber intelligence analysts who provide legal, operational, 
geopolitical, and technical subject matter expertise to protect Microsoft and our customers. DSU’s analysis and 
proposed solutions to complex digital security problems help to build trust in Microsoft’s enterprise security 
capabilities and defenses against advanced cyber adversaries worldwide.
GitHub Security Lab 
An open-source software-focused security research team. Its mission is to help secure the world’s code and 
build bridges between the security research and software development communities through contributions 
including security research, tooling, and meetups.
IoT Security Research Team (also known as Research 52)
A team that’s composed of domain-expert reverse engineers and data scientists. The team continuously 
performs reverse-engineering and analysis of large amounts of data related to IoT threats and threat actors to 
gain better visibility into the IoT landscape and uncover related trends and campaigns.
80
Microsoft Digital Defense Report  |  September 2020
TABLE OF CONTENTS    INTRODUCTION    THE STATE OF CYBERCRIME    NATION STATE THREATS    SECURITY AND THE REMOTE WORKFORCE    ACTIONABLE LEARNINGS    GLOSSARY
81
Microsoft Digital Defense Report  |  September 2020Photo of a woman working on a laptop.
Microsoft Defender Team 
Microsoft’s largest global organization of product-focused security researchers, applied scientists, and threat 
intelligence analysts. The Defender Team delivers innovative detection and response capabilities in Microsoft 365  
security solutions and Microsoft Threat Experts.
Microsoft Digital Crimes Unit (DCU) 
A team of attorneys, investigators, data scientists, engineers, analysts, and business professionals that fight 
cybercrime globally through the innovative application of technology, forensics, civil actions, criminal referrals, 
and public/private partnerships, while protecting the security and privacy of our customers.
Microsoft Security Response Center (MSRC) 
Part of the defender community on the front line of security response evolution. For more than 20 years, MSRC 
has been engaged with security researchers working to protect customers and the broader ecosystem. An 
integral part of Microsoft’s CDOC, MSRC brings together security response experts from across the company to 
help protect, detect, and respond to threats in real time. 
Microsoft Threat Intelligence Center (MSTIC) 
Microsoft’s centralized team focused on identifying, tracking, and collecting intelligence against the most 
sophisticated and advanced adversaries impacting Microsoft customers, including nation state threats, malware, 
phishing, and more. The threat intelligence analysts and engineering teams in MSTIC work closely with Micrsoft 
security product teams to both develop and refine high-quality detections and defenses across our security 
product portfolio.
81
Microsoft Digital Defense Report  |  September 2020
TABLE OF CONTENTS    INTRODUCTION    THE STATE OF CYBERCRIME    NATION STATE THREATS    SECURITY AND THE REMOTE WORKFORCE    ACTIONABLE LEARNINGS    GLOSSARY

Glossary
Acronyms and terminology
TABLE OF CONTENTS    INTRODUCTION    THE STATE OF CYBERCRIME    NATION STATE THREATS    SECURITY AND THE REMOTE WORKFORCE    ACTIONABLE LEARNINGS    GLOSSARY
83
Microsoft Digital Defense Report  |  September 2020
Acronyms and terminology
advanced persistent threat 
An adversary that possesses sophisticated levels of 
expertise and significant resources, which allow it 
to create opportunities to achieve its objectives by 
using multiple attack vectors (e.g., cyber, physical, 
and deception). This term originated as a way 
to refer to nation state actors but has become a 
general term to describe organized adversaries.
adversary
An individual, group, organization, or government 
that conducts or has the intent to conduct 
cybersecurity attacks.
alert
A notification that a specific attack, anomaly, or 
suspicious activity has been detected or directed 
at an organization’s information systems. Alerts 
frequently trigger investigations by security 
operations/analysts.
analyst 
Also known as cybersecurity analyst, a common role 
within an organization’s SOC team that investigates, 
alerts, or hunts for adversary activities.
asset 
An entity of value that could take the form of a 
person, structure, facility, information and records, 
IT systems and resources, material, process, 
relationships, or reputation.
attack 
Any attempt to defeat the security assurances of a 
system or data including confidentiality, integrity, or 
availability.
attack path 
The steps that an adversary takes or might take to 
plan, prepare for, and execute an attack. 
attack pattern 
Similar cyber events or behaviors that might indicate 
an attack has occurred or is occurring, resulting in a 
security violation or a potential security violation.
attack surface 
An information system’s characteristics that permit 
an adversary to probe, attack, or maintain presence 
in the information system.
attacker 
An individual, group, or organization that executes 
an attack. An attacker might also refer to an 
adversary or an individual attack operator.
attachment (as in malicious email) 
During phishing campaigns, cybercriminals attempt 
to trick users into selecting an email attachment, 
which then downloads a malicious executable, 
infecting the user’s computer or mobile device, or, 
upon opening the attachment the user might be 
redirected to a fraudulent login site. Attachments 
can come in various forms, such as a Microsoft 
Office document, a PDF file, .zip files, etc.
authentication 
The process of verifying the identity of an entity 
(user, process, or device).
authorization 
A process of determining whether a subject is 
allowed to have the specified types of access to a 
particular resource. This action is typically done by 
evaluating applicable access control information 
such as access control lists. In modern cybersecurity 
approaches, authorization could also incorporate 
other risk factors such as behavioral analytics and 
evaluation of threat intelligence.
availability 
One of three primary cybersecurity assurances, 
the property of being accessible and usable upon 
demand.
banking trojan 
A type of malware designed to obtain credentials to 
banking and other financial services. These trojans 
use a variety of techniques, including interception 
of web communications as users access financial 
services on infected devices. Many known banking 
trojans are part of botnets that provide cybercrime 
organizations with persistent access to large 
numbers of devices. 
blast radius 
A machine learning method to identify the most 
impactful users, based on the level of risk to the 
organization if they become compromised.
botnet 
A collection of computers compromised by 
malicious code and controlled across a network.
TABLE OF CONTENTS    INTRODUCTION    THE STATE OF CYBERCRIME    NATION STATE THREATS    SECURITY AND THE REMOTE WORKFORCE    ACTIONABLE LEARNINGS    GLOSSARY
84
Microsoft Digital Defense Report  |  September 2020
breach 
Any incident that results in unauthorized access of 
data, applications, services, networks, and/or devices 
by bypassing their underlying security mechanisms. 
A security breach occurs when an individual or 
an application illegitimately enters a private, 
confidential, or unauthorized logical IT perimeter.
brownfield 
Existing deployed IoT/IIoT devices that might not 
have modern hardware or functionality. For example, 
these devices might not have support for over-the-
air updates or remote administration.
brute force 
An attack technique that uses systematic guessing, 
static or dynamic lists of passwords, dumped 
credentials from previous breaches, or other similar 
methods to forcibly authenticate to a device or 
service.
business email compromise (BEC) 
A technology-facilitated social engineering scam 
that targets business email accounts and enables 
cybercriminals to unlawfully redirect and intercept 
money wires, exfiltrate documents, and launch other 
cybercrime. BEC is often initiated through some 
form of credential phishing.
ciphertext 
Data or information in its encrypted form used 
primarily by cryptology experts. Sometimes referred 
to as encrypted data.
cloud access security broker (CASB) 
A CASB is a software tool or service that 
sits between an organization’s on-premises 
infrastructure and a cloud provider’s infrastructure. 
They might also provide other services such as 
credential mapping when single sign-on isn’t 
available.
confidentiality 
An assurance that information isn’t disclosed to 
unauthorized users, processes, devices, or other 
entities. One of the three primary cybersecurity 
assurances (confidentiality, integrity, and availability).
critical infrastructure 
The systems and assets, whether physical or 
virtual, so vital to society that the incapacity or 
destruction of such might have a debilitating impact 
on the security, economy, public health or safety, 
environment, or any combination of these areas.
cybersecurity 
The discipline of preserving and rapidly restoring 
the primary security assurances of confidentiality, 
integrity, and availability for systems, data, and 
identities.
data estate 
The procedures, services, and infrastructure used to 
manage corporate data in the digital estate. 
data loss prevention (DLP) 
A set of procedures and mechanisms to stop 
sensitive data from leaving a security boundary.
denial of service 
An attack that prevents or impairs the authorized 
use of information system resources or services. 
A distributed denial of service (DDoS) is a type 
of attack that uses multiple networked machines 
to overwhelm a host connected to the internet, 
temporarily or permanently disrupting service or 
preventing access.
digital estate 
An abstract reference to a collection of tangible 
owned assets. Those assets include virtual machines 
(VMs), servers, applications, data, containers, 
apps, and so on. Essentially, a digital estate is the 
collection of IT assets that power business processes 
and supporting operations.
drop account 
An email account set up by a criminal to receive 
credentials provided by an unsuspecting victim.
encryption 
The process of transforming plaintext into 
ciphertext.
event 
An observable occurrence in an information system 
or network.
exfiltration 
The unauthorized transfer of information from an 
information system.
exploit 
A technique to breach the security of a network or 
information system in violation of security policy.
exposure 
The condition of being unprotected, thereby 
allowing access to information or access to 
capabilities that an attacker can use to enter a 
system or network.
firewall 
A capability to limit network traffic between 
networks and/or information systems.
TABLE OF CONTENTS    INTRODUCTION    THE STATE OF CYBERCRIME    NATION STATE THREATS    SECURITY AND THE REMOTE WORKFORCE    ACTIONABLE LEARNINGS    GLOSSARY
85
Microsoft Digital Defense Report  |  September 2020
fusion 
A technology for finding threats that would 
otherwise fly under the radar. Fusion uses machine 
learning to combine disparate data from Microsoft 
and partner datasets, by combining low-fidelity 
“yellow” anomalous activities into high-fidelity “red” 
incidents.  
greenfield 
New or planned IoT/IIoT deployments that support 
the latest advances in security and technology 
management.
honeypot 
A computer or computer system intended to mimic 
likely targets of cybercriminals.
human-operated ransomware  
A type of ransomware attack that’s performed by 
human operators. During these attacks, human 
operators use various tools and techniques to 
compromise and traverse targeted networks, 
ultimately deploying ransomware on multiple 
devices on the compromised networks.
hunting 
Proactively looking for active adversaries.
identity and access management (IAM)  
The methods and processes used to manage 
subjects and their authentication and authorizations 
to access specific objects.
indicators of compromise (IOC) 
Pieces of forensic data, such as data found in system 
log entries or files, that identify potentially malicious 
activity on a system or network.
insider threat 
A person or group of persons within an organization 
who pose a potential risk through violating security 
policies.
International Organization for 
Standardization (ISO)
An international standard-setting body composed 
of representatives from various national standards 
organizations. Founded in 1947, the organization 
promotes worldwide proprietary, industrial, and 
commercial standards.
intrusion 
An unauthorized act of bypassing the security 
mechanisms of a network or information system.
intrusion detection 
The process and methods for analyzing information 
from networks and information systems to 
determine if a security breach or security violation 
has occurred.
just in time (JIT) 
Provides temporary (measured in hours) elevated 
access to internal engineers to debug production 
issues or support customer cases to ensure limited 
access based on least privilege principles.
kill chain 
A cyber kill chain reveals the phases of a cyber 
attack: from early reconnaissance to the goal of 
data exfiltration. The kill chain is also a model for 
identification and prevention of cyber intrusions 
activity. The model identifies what the adversaries 
must complete in order to achieve their objective.50 
machine learning  
A type of artificial intelligence focused on enabling 
computers to use observed data to evolve new 
behaviors that haven’t been explicitly programmed.
macro virus 
A type of malicious code that attaches itself to 
documents and uses the macro programming 
capabilities of the document’s application to 
execute, replicate, and spread or propagate itself.
maintainer (as in GitHub) 
Someone who manages a repository. This person 
might help triage issues and use labels and other 
features to manage the work of the repository. This 
person might also be responsible for keeping the 
README and contributing files updated.
model inversion 
An activity whereby an attacker uses careful queries 
to recover the secret features used in a machine 
learning model.
model stealing 
An activity whereby an attacker constructs careful 
queries to recover a machine learning model.
nation state activity group 
Cyber threat activity that originates in a particular 
country with the apparent intent of furthering 
national interests.
50 https://www.lockheedmartin.com/en-us/capabilities/cyber/cyber-kill-chain.html
TABLE OF CONTENTS    INTRODUCTION    THE STATE OF CYBERCRIME    NATION STATE THREATS    SECURITY AND THE REMOTE WORKFORCE    ACTIONABLE LEARNINGS    GLOSSARY
86
Microsoft Digital Defense Report  |  September 2020
National Institute of Standards and 
Technology (NIST)
A physical sciences laboratory and a nonregulatory 
agency of the U.S. Department of Commerce. Its 
mission is to promote innovation and industrial 
competitiveness.
npm (as in GitHub) 
npm is the package manager for Node.js, and the 
world’s largest software registry.
obfuscation 
A method used to hide or obscure an attack payload 
from inspection by information protection systems.
operator, or attack operator 
An individual person who is executing an attack 
operation. This person might be acting alone, 
acting on behalf of an organization, or acting in 
concert with multiple other attack operators in a 
coordinated campaign.
password spray 
High-volume attempts using a large number of 
common passwords to compromise sourced account 
information to authenticate and gain access to a 
network, often leveraging big data algorithms and 
extensive automation for rapid execution.
phishing 
A digital form of social engineering to deceive 
individuals into providing sensitive information. 
phishing kit 
A collection of tools assembled to make it easier for 
individuals with little or no knowledge of phishing 
practices to launch a phishing exploit.
poisoning attack 
Contamination in the training phase of machine 
learning systems to get an intended result.
Purdue Reference Model, “95” 
A reference model for enterprise control, describing 
a generic view of an integrated manufacturing or 
production system, expressed as a series of logical 
levels.
Red Team 
A group authorized and organized to emulate 
a potential adversary’s attack or exploitation 
capabilities against an enterprise’s cybersecurity 
posture.
Red Team exercise or Red Team testing 
An exercise, reflecting real-world conditions, that’s 
conducted as a simulated attempt by an adversary 
to attack or exploit vulnerabilities in an enterprise’s 
information systems.
Remote Desktop Protocol (RDP) 
A protocol for remotely connecting to computers 
running Windows. 
resilience 
The ability to adapt to changing conditions and 
prepare for, withstand, and rapidly recover from 
disruption.
reverse engineering 
The reproduction of another manufacturer’s product 
following detailed examination of its construction or 
composition.
secrets (as in GitHub secrets) 
Secrets are tokens, credentials, private keys, or other 
authentication identifiers that might be used in a 
service at build or run time. For example, secrets 
might be used by an application to access an 
external service.
security development lifecycle (SDL) 
The Microsoft SDL introduces security and privacy 
considerations throughout all phases of the 
development process, helping developers build 
highly secure software, address security compliance 
requirements, and reduce development costs. The 
guidance, best practices, tools, and processes in 
the Microsoft SDL are practices we use internally to 
build more secure products and services. Since first 
shared in 2008, we’ve updated the practices as a 
result of our growing experience with new scenarios, 
like the cloud, IoT, and artificial intelligence.
security information and event 
management (SIEM) 
An approach to security management that combines 
SIM (security information management) and SEM 
(security event management) functions into one 
security management system. The acronym SIEM is 
pronounced “sim” with a silent “e.”
security operations center (SOC) 
A centralized function within an organization 
employing people, processes, and technology to 
continuously monitor and improve an organization’s 
security posture while preventing, detecting, 
analyzing, and responding to cybersecurity 
incidents.51 
Security Orchestration, Automation and 
Response (SOAR) 
A solution stack of compatible software programs 
that allow an organization to collect data about 
security threats from multiple sources and respond 
to low-level security events without human 
assistance.
SMiShing (SMS phishing) 
An attack method via a text or SMS message 
received on a mobile device. An attacker uses 
SMiShing to trick a user into downloading malware 
or revealing private information through a 
fraudulent link.
51 https://www.mcafee.com/enterprise/en-us/security-awareness/operations/what-is-soc.html
TABLE OF CONTENTS    INTRODUCTION    THE STATE OF CYBERCRIME    NATION STATE THREATS    SECURITY AND THE REMOTE WORKFORCE    ACTIONABLE LEARNINGS    GLOSSARY
87
Microsoft Digital Defense Report  |  September 2020
spoofing 
Faking the sending address of a transmission to gain 
illegal (unauthorized) entry into a secure system. 
Website spoofing involves creating a duplicate 
version of a website that appears to be the original. 
Hackers use legitimate logos, fonts, colors, and 
functionality to make the spoofed site look realistic. 
Even the URL can appear genuine.
supply chain 
A system of organizations, people, activities, 
information, and resources, for creating and moving 
products including product components and/or 
services from suppliers through to their customers. 
supply chain risk management 
The process of identifying, analyzing, and assessing 
supply chain risk and accepting, avoiding, 
transferring, or controlling it to an acceptable level 
considering associated costs and benefits of any 
actions taken.
threat variant 
New or modified strains of an existing virus or 
malware program; malware family.
vishing (voice phishing) 
The telephone equivalent of phishing. It’s the 
act of using the telephone to scam the user into 
surrendering private information that will be used 
for identity theft. It can take shape as a phone call or 
voice message from a live or automated person.
Zero Trust 
A security model based on the principle of 
maintaining strict access controls and not trusting 
anyone by default, even those already inside the 
network perimeter.
TABLE OF CONTENTS    INTRODUCTION    THE STATE OF CYBERCRIME    NATION STATE THREATS    SECURITY AND THE REMOTE WORKFORCE    ACTIONABLE LEARNINGS    GLOSSARY
© 2020 Microsoft. All rights reserved.Microsoft logo
