1/26/2023
SEABORGIUM and TA453 continue their respective... - NCSC.GOV.UK
https://www.ncsc.gov.uk/news/spear-phishing-campaigns-targets-of-interest
1/7
NEWS
SEABORGIUM and TA453 continue their
respective spear-phishing campaigns
against targets of interest
Activity against targeted organisations and individuals in the UK and other areas of
interest.
The Russia-based SEABORGIUM (Callisto Group/TA446/COLDRIVER/TAG-53) and
Iran-based TA453 (APT42/Charming Kitten/Yellow Garuda/ITG18) actors continue
to successfully use spear-phishing attacks against targeted organisations and
individuals in the UK, and other areas of interest, for information gathering activity.
Industry has previously published details of SEABORGIUM and TA453 activity. This
advisory draws on that body of information.
Throughout 2022, SEABORGIUM and TA453 targeted sectors included academia,
defence, governmental organisations, NGOs, think-tanks, as well as politicians,
journalists and activists.
Although there is similarity in the TTPs and targeting profiles, these campaigns are
separate and the two groups are not collaborating.
This advisory aims to raise awareness of this activity for individuals and
organisations in sectors known to be of interest to these actors. It helps identify
the specifics of these actors’ spear-phishing techniques.
Outline of the attacks
1/26/2023
SEABORGIUM and TA453 continue their respective... - NCSC.GOV.UK
https://www.ncsc.gov.uk/news/spear-phishing-campaigns-targets-of-interest
2/7
The activity is typical of spear-phishing campaigns, where an actor targets a
specific individual or group, using information known to be of interest to the
targets to engage them. In a spear-phishing campaign, an actor perceives their
target to have direct access to information of interest, be an access vector to
another target, or both.
Research and preparation
Using open-source resources to conduct reconnaissance, including social media
and professional networking platforms, SEABORGIUM and TA453 identify hooks to
engage their target. They take the time to research their interests and identify
their real-world social or professional contacts. [T1589; T1593]
They have also created fake social media or networking profiles that impersonate
respected experts [T1585.001], and used supposed conference or event invitations,
as well as false approaches from journalists.
Both SEABORGIUM and TA453 use webmail addresses from different providers
(including Outlook, Gmail and Yahoo) in their initial approach [T1585.002],
impersonating known contacts of the target or eminent names in the target’s
field of interest or sector.
The actors have also created malicious domains resembling legitimate
organisations to appear authentic [T1583.001]. Microsoft Threat Intelligence Center
(MSTIC) provide a list of observed Indicators of Compromise (IOCs) in their
SEABORGIUM blog, although this should not be considered as exhaustive.
Preference for personal email addresses
SEABORGIUM and TA453 have predominantly sent spear-phishing emails to
targets’ personal email addresses, although targets’ corporate or business email
addresses have also been used. The actors may use personal emails to
circumvent security controls in place on corporate networks.
Building a rapport
1/26/2023
SEABORGIUM and TA453 continue their respective... - NCSC.GOV.UK
https://www.ncsc.gov.uk/news/spear-phishing-campaigns-targets-of-interest
3/7
Having taken the time to research their targets’ interests and contacts to create
a believable approach, SEABORGIUM and TA453 now start to build trust. They often
begin by establishing benign contact on a topic they hope will engage their
targets. There is often some correspondence between attacker and target,
sometimes over an extended period, as the attacker builds rapport.
Delivery of malicious link
Once trust is established, the attacker uses typical phishing tradecraft and shares
a link [T1566.002], apparently to a document or website of interest. This leads the
target to an actor-controlled server, prompting the target to enter account
credentials.
The malicious link may be a URL in an email message, or the actor may embed a
link in a document [T1566.001] on OneDrive, GoogleDrive, or other file-sharing
platforms.
TA453 has even shared malicious links disguised as Zoom meeting URLs, and in one
case, even set up a Zoom call with the target to share the malicious URL in the chat
bar during the call.
Industry partners have also reported the use of multi-persona impersonation (use
of two or more actor-controlled personas on a spear-phishing thread) to add the
appearance of legitimacy.
Exploitation and further activity
Whichever delivery method is used, once the target clicks on the malicious URL,
they are directed to an actor-controlled server that mirrors the sign-in page for a
legitimate service. Any credentials entered at this point are now compromised.
1/26/2023
SEABORGIUM and TA453 continue their respective... - NCSC.GOV.UK
https://www.ncsc.gov.uk/news/spear-phishing-campaigns-targets-of-interest
4/7
The SEABORGIUM and TA453 actors then use the stolen credentials to log in to
targets’ email accounts [T1078], from where they are known to access and steal
emails and attachments from the victim’s inbox [T1114.002]. They have also set-up
mail-forwarding rules, giving them ongoing visibility of victim correspondence
[T1113.003].
The actors have also used their access to a victim email account to access
mailing-list data and victim’s contacts lists. The actors then use this information
for follow-on targeting and have also used compromised email accounts for
further phishing activity [T1586.002].
Conclusion
Although spear-phishing is an established technique used by many actors,
SEABORGIUM and TA453 continue to use it successfully and evolve the technique
to maintain their success.
Individuals and organisations from previously targeted sectors should be vigilant
of the techniques above. In the UK, report activity consistent with that described
above to the NCSC.
Information on effective defence against spear-phishing is included in the
‘Mitigation’ section below.
MITRE ATT&CK®
This report has been compiled with respect to the MITRE ATT&CK® framework, a
globally accessible knowledge base of adversary tactics and techniques based on
real-world observations.
Tactic
ID
Technique
Procedure
1/26/2023
SEABORGIUM and TA453 continue their respective... - NCSC.GOV.UK
https://www.ncsc.gov.uk/news/spear-phishing-campaigns-targets-of-interest
5/7
Reconnaiss
ance
T1593
Search Open
Websites/Do
mains
SEABORGIUM actors use open source research and social media to
identif y inf ormation about victims to be used in targeting.
TA453 actors likely use prof essional networking sites and other
open source resources to research their targets.
Reconnaiss
ance
T1589
Gather
Victim
Identity
Inf ormation
SEABORGIUM and TA453 actors use online data sets and open
source resources to gather inf ormation about their targets.
Resource
Developme
nt
T1585.001
Establish
Accounts:
Social Media
Accounts
SEABORGIUM actors have been observed to establish f raudulent
prof iles on prof essional networking sites to conduct
reconnaissance.
TA453 actors have been observed to use f raudulent prof iles on
prof essional networking and other social media sites to
approach their targets.
Resource
Developme
nt
T1585.002
Establish
Accounts:
Email
Accounts
SEABORGIUM and TA453 actors register consumer email accounts
matching the names of  individuals they are impersonating to
conduct spear-phishing activity.
Resource
Developme
nt
T1583.001
Acquire
Inf rastructur
e:
Domains
SEABORGIUM actors register domains used to host their phishing
f ramework.
TA453 actors register domains to host f ake login pages.
Resource
Developme
nt
T1586.002
Compromise
Accounts:
Email
Accounts
SEABORGIUM actors have been observed to use compromised
victim email accounts to conduct spear-phishing activity against
contacts of  the original victim.
Initial
Access
T107 8
Valid
Accounts
SEABORGIUM and TA453 actors use compromised credentials,
captured f rom f ake login pages, to log in to valid victim user
accounts.
Initial
Access
T1566.001
Phishing:
Spear-
phishing
attachment
SEABORGIUM actors use malicious links embedded in an email
attachment to direct victims to their credential stealing sites.
Initial
Access
T1566.002
Phishing:
Spear-
phishing link
SEABORGIUM actors send spear-phishing emails with malicious
links directly to credential stealing sites, or to documents hosted
on a f ile sharing site which direct victims to credential stealing
sites.
TA453 actors send spear-phishing emails with malicious links
directly to credential stealing sites and to malware hosted on a
f ile sharing site.
i
i
i
i
i
1/26/2023
SEABORGIUM and TA453 continue their respective... - NCSC.GOV.UK
https://www.ncsc.gov.uk/news/spear-phishing-campaigns-targets-of-interest
6/7
Collection
T1114.002
Email
Collection:
Remote
Email
Collection
SEABORGIUM and TA453 actors interact directly with externally
f acing Exchange services, Of f ice 365, or Google Workspace to
access email and steal inf ormation using compromised
credentials or access tokens.
Collection
T1113.003
Email
Collection:
Email
Forwarding
Rule
SEABORGIUM actors may abuse email-f orwarding rules to monitor
the activities of  a victim, steal inf ormation, and maintain
persistent access to victim's emails even af ter compromised
credentials are reset.
Mitigation
Use strong passwords
Use a separate password for email accounts and avoid password re-use across multiple
services. See NCSC Guidance.
Use multi-factor authentication
Also known as 2-step verification. Helps reduce the impact of password compromises.
See NCSC Guidance for organisations and advice for small business, individuals and
families
Protect your devices and networks by keeping them up to date
Use the latest supported versions, apply security updates promptly, use antivirus and
scan regularly to guard against known malware threats. See NCSC Guidance.
Exercise vigilance
Spear-phishing emails are tailored to avoid suspicion. You may recognise the sender’s
name, but has the email come from an address that you recognise? Would you expect
contact from this person’s webmail address rather than their corporate email address?
Has the suspicious email come to your personal/webmail address, rather than your
corporate one? Can you verify that the email is legitimate via another means?
See NCSC phishing guidance. CPNI’s ‘Think Before You Link’ app, can help individuals
identify malicious online profiles and reduce the risk of being targeted in the first
instance.
Enable your email providers’ automated email scanning features
These are turned on by default for consumer mail providers. See NCSC advice.
Disable mail-forwarding
Attackers have been observed to set up mail-forwarding rules to maintain visibility of
target emails. If you cannot disable mail-forwarding, then monitor settings regularly to
1/26/2023
SEABORGIUM and TA453 continue their respective... - NCSC.GOV.UK
https://www.ncsc.gov.uk/news/spear-phishing-campaigns-targets-of-interest
7/7
g
y
g
g
g
y
ensure that a forwarding rule has not been set up by an external malicious actor.
PUBLISHED
26 January 2023
WRIT T EN FOR
Small & medium sized organisations
Large organisations
NEWS T YPE
Alert
